so we're going to talk about energy
tonight um I'm going to help you
increase your
energy a lot of people could use more
energy um so there's several things that
I found um that I want to share with you
um that you you won't be able to find
this on the net because there's so much
trivial information about increasing
energy mainly about stimulating your
body and increasing um things to kind of
boost your energy
but we're going to look behind the the
curtain of what's really behind your low
energy but the question is do you really
got you really want to know the truth
about energy
so because you may not like it so go
ahead and tell me if you want to know
the
truth okay so some of you want to know
the truth some people don't no I'm just
kidding no so here's what I want
I want to cover number one um the number
one mistake that people do of course and
I know most of you have been following
my videos you don't make this mistake
you try to stimulate your energy with
Five Hour Energy drink caffeine jolt
that's like some serious caffeine and of
course you're going to get energy but
has a long-term effect of burning out
your body um so when we test people that
are fatigued and I have a machine that
measures the amount of energy in a body
um most
people have they're they're burnt out so
anything to stimulate them or jack up
their energy ends up making them feel
more wired and burning them out more
over time so one thing we don't want to
do is we don't want to like try to boost
anything especially if you're trying to
lose weight if you're tired we don't
want to stimulate your metabolism we
want to find out what is
holding down or blocking your energy or
metabolism okay so there are several
points that cause fatigue we're going to
start with um this one on blood
sugars okay so let's just kind of go
into what blood sugars mean and what
like what is normal and people try to
will tell you like you need to have your
blood sugars about 100 what does that
mean now without getting too technical
it's 100 Mill milligrams per deciliter
which basically you have about a gallon
if you're about 160 pounds you have
about a gallon and a half of blood in
your body and you need about a teaspoon
of sugar per your entire body's blood
supply so that's a pretty
diluted um amount of sugar you don't
need much sugar in your
blood um a
teaspoon for a gallon and a half of
blood so it's very very small amounts
but check this out an average person in
the US
consumes 15 pounds of sugar per year and
I know I don't consume that much so
there's a lot of people that probably
eat consume more than 150 pounds of
sugar per year so that's like 350 pound
things of potatoes that is crazy so your
body um is not designed for that much
toxic sugar so one of the biggest causes
of fatigue is obviously the sugar so
let's just explain how it works um to
keep it really simple there's a hormone
from your pancreas called insulin that
lowers your blood sugar okay so every
time you eat sugar it gets triggered to
come in there and extract the the excess
out of your blood and into storage
mostly as fat so
basically I would say a great majority
of fat on a person's body is
really it's converted from sugar but
there's also stress can convert to sugar
too but we're going to stick with
insulin right now now how does it work
you eat something sweet it raises the
sugar and then the insulin comes in and
lowers your blood sugar now when this
happens too often or you eat too much
sugar at one time not gradually it'll
kind of shock the system where the where
the blood sugars will Spike up and down
fairly fast and this creates a huge
strain on the pancreas the cells that
make insulin so large amounts of sugar
or refined grains are the biggest
triggers and then we also have a large
amount of protein so protein in excess
amounts can also trigger insulin and I'm
not talking about like six or seven or
eight ounces I'm talking about like 12
ounce steak especially if you add a
potato in there um but if we look at
vegetables it doesn't create much of an
effect at all maybe if you had you know
starches yes it would but not Kale's not
going to do it celer is not going to do
it so we really want to keep our sugars
right at about around 100 plus or minus
um five would be nice and if you can get
your body in a good shape where it's U
running on other types of fuel sources
which we'll get into then we could even
survive on um blood sugars of uh 85
90 if it's consistent that's not a bad
situation so you're not going to have
something like hypoglycemia or low blood
sugar so but it really depends on how
you
feel okay so insulin effects on fat it's
it doesn't have any effect on fat so
basically um when you eat fat insulin is
not not affected and this is very cool
because this means that um a lot of
people who consume fat are not getting
fat from their fat they're getting fat
from the
carbohydrates so fat doesn't necessarily
make you fat it can if you consume
tremendous amounts of it and it can slow
down um your burning of your own fat
because your body will start to burn
Fat's energy but it doesn't really
affect insulin so what does that mean
that
that means that if you're a diabetic or
you're a hypoglycemic low blood sugar um
fat would be a very good thing to
consume simply because it takes the
stress off the hormone insulin and this
is what the mistake for a lot of people
a lot of diabetics the doctor SS avoid
fat no no no you want to increase the
fat if you're a diabetic because that's
that's going to buffer and slow the
insulin response the thing that they
should avoid if they're diabetic is any
type of grains or sugar why because it's
already straining your insulin is
already off the charts and it's and
cells that make insulin are so
exhausted that um you need to avoid the
thing that triggers
it okay so first thing I want to talk
about is hidden
sugars and um you you pretty much know
most of the hidden suggar but I'm going
to increase your awareness and some
other ones of course you have the grying
grains you have the
um Frozen Yogurt
alcohol alcohol is interesting because
alcohol will block your liver and it it
messes with the liver and that affects
the um the metabolism of um sugar and so
it's almost like it it really screws up
the function the liver and it totally
blocks any chance of burning fat when
you're drinking
alcohol because the fat in your body has
to come through the liver on the way out
uh juice is a real big hidden sugar so I
want to show you this flavored yogurt
look at this 26 grams of sugar in a 6
oun I mean this is like massive amounts
of sugar and if you look at the
ingredients it has modified corn starch
guess what that is that is MSG so it's
another name for MSG so that will
increase insulin by 300%
so this is a great way to cause diabetes
by consuming this right here now even if
you have plain yogurt a lot of the plain
yogurts will have six to 10 grams of
sugar per eight ounces so it's a little
too much if you're trying to lose weight
now what I'm telling you is that all
these hidden sugars are fatigue poisons
okay and then we of course we have the
MSG MSG monosodium glut
it's in all the fast food places it's in
the Chinese food it's hidden in a lot of
things at the grocery store as uh
modified food starch it's in commercial
cottage cheese but it increases insulin
by 300% so it's it's kind of a way of
eating a lot of sugar without eating
sugar and so it will make rats uh become
obese now I'm going
to check some question periodically so
let's see can too much fat give us
anxiety um only if it strains the
gallbladder in the liver but typically
it should
not but a digestive bloating will cause
anxiety does help does fat help
normalize um
BS okay so you're gonna have to Define
BS what does bs stand for can you go to
slideshow mode to make chart bigger oh
that's a really good Point let me see if
I can do
that
slideshow um I don't really know how to
do
that well I'll tell you what I'll send
you the slides how about
that I'll have to prepare a little bit
for that next time um okay what about
fats for someone without a gallbladder
yeah you have to be careful and you're
going to have to consume bile salts I
recommend the gallbladder formula
because that's that'll really help you
digest uh not just the fats but I put in
there factors for your stomach to help
you release more bile from the liver and
I also put things in there uh for the
pancreas to help break down the fats
certain
enzymes okay good now BS stands for
blood sugars okay does fat help
normalize blood sugars Jenna absolutely
yes it
will and that's why like especially in
the morning if you want to establish
your blood sugars um it helps to helps
your body running a fuel source that's
it's a lot better than the blood sugar
thing that we'll we'll get into more on
the Food Part in a in a little
bit let's see someone Stephanie says
icon for slideshow mode is in the lower
right corner
okay icon for
slideshow lower corner h
well don't see it sorry I'm G to have to
study that
later okay so MSG very bad stay away
from it uh it makes food taste really
good oh check this out the protein bars
okay so we have protein bars or whatever
you call them like I guess they're
called protein bars or candy bars
because look it 23 gram of
sugar per bar that's like you better off
eating a candy bar um and it has right
here it says soy protein
isolates yeah not good type of protein
so it's cheap protein uh here's one that
says pure protein but it has three grams
of sugar
so I think that advertisement is not
quite
correct here's something that I want to
talk about uh vitamin um orange juice um
this is interesting because look at how
much sugar is in orange juice tremendous
amounts of sugar because it's just it's
pasteurized and there is actually no
vitamin C in the orange juice that you
buy at the store because pasteurization
kills all the vitamin C complex so any
vitamin C that's in there is added
synthetically as a scorc acid but orange
juice is a very very terrible food
if you're trying
to lose weight and trying to get energy
like people recommend doing it um for
energy bad idea I did a seminar once and
I um um had this guy said well I heard
that I need to consume my sugar to get
my energy I said who told you that he
says I'm not sure but it's just everyone
knows that and I'm like well who told
you that well it's an it's an all the
Publications so he couldn't really tell
me where he heard it but his idea was he
had to eat carbohydrates to get his
energy um because that's where you get
your energy from that is not true that
is false data you don't get you don't
have to get your energy from
carbohydrates the amount of energy you
get is like this much for a minute and
then it goes back to fatigue
so yeah you want to get your uh energy
somewhere else does coffee have MSG not
necessarily uh I've never heard that
coffee having
MSG uh someone says I have PCOS
hypothyroid and losing weight very slow
uh we'll get into PCOS in in a little
bit here um that's polycystic ovarian
syndrome um oh yeah Cliff Cliff bar is
an energy bar not a protein bar okay
very good point um yeah energy we should
call them a fatigue bar because that
energy is going to make you very tired
after a while okay let me go to the next
[Music]
slide
now let's talk about carb addictions um
carbohydrates are probably one of the
most
addicting food on the planet it's like a
drug I mean so many people are addicted
to this it's crazy and they they just
have a hard time giving it up I'm going
to show you how to give it up uh without
pain and
suffering uh but it's a trap
it's a very very um huge trap because as
soon as you start consuming it you keep
wanting it more and more and more I
remember one time I was um probably in
my 20s um I started
consuming um ice cream and the next day
I needed some more ice cream that night
and the next day I needed some more and
the next I was look looking forward my
whole day to have this Ben and Jerry's
ice cream and I started getting more
tired and I felt I thought I slept
better but it was really a sugar coma
and during the day I started getting
more tired and it was just terrible so I
was
addicted um but there's a lot of
pleasure from carbohydrates initially
anyway but it's a trap because of the
amount of camouflaged chemicals in these
Foods so-called Foods they're not really
Foods they're very gorgeous chemicals
they have these beautiful images of this
spongy cake and I mean it's very
aesthetic but look what what's really in
there it's high frutus corn syrups
cornstarch modified cornstarch as MSG
hydrogenated
oils I mean there's really nothing in
there that is good for you at all and um
again it's a fatigue
poison
so so when I was growing up and I I want
to tell you my story um I was probably
the worst of the
worst I don't think I ate one vegetable
growing up until was like 20 years old I
lived on sugar I would raid the
cupboards um that's all I would eat but
I Justified it because I I said to
myself I'll eat healthy when I graduate
so even in college I would buy celery
and salad but I would never eat it I
would eat pizza and pasta so that that
kept going and I think as a child I
consumed um so much sugar I started
noticing that I started having beginning
dizziness that was a I was like 11 years
old that was hypoglycemic I didn't know
what it was and then I started to get
heartburn that was the first symptom so
I started taking roll
lades and um I think I started eating
some salad around them too because I
figured I have to start eating healthy
but again um I said I'll eat healthy you
know when I graduate gotta live you know
once it didn't really bother me too bad
initially so how many of you crave
carbohy hydrates and if you do crave
carbohydrates what's your what's your
justifier how do you justify eating
carbohydrates what is the thing that you
tell yourself to make it okay to eat it
give me your
responses says my son is learning about
carbs in school being
energy I know it's terrible it's some so
much false information in school it's
crazy is there any way to cook healthy
desserts so you feel satisfied
absolutely abolutely yes there is
there's a whole bunch of things that you
can do there's alternative recipes um
and what I'm going to recommend that you
do if you want some really good desserts
just go to Pinterest and type un type um
keto ke t o and then
desserts those desserts will be very
very um uh a great replacement to the
sugar okay this is good so it's Saturday
it gives me energy it's a reward it's
comfort food
Foods just eat a little
bit and I'll eat healthy the rest of the
day a little bit won't kill
you that's
funny yeah you don't want to be a h um
you know you don't you don't want to be
healthy your entire life right I mean
like people like they think sometimes
I'm a health food fanatic like when am I
going to start eating normal
food yeah like you
yeah
so let me just go back to this
share okay right
here okay so the whole culture is based
on this these carbohydrates right now I
mean it's really inbred into society
it's like almost brainwashed and it's
everywhere you go it's right in your
face it's it's um pushed on you at the
counters trying to get out of the
grocery store it's it's dessert
menus uh social events it's hard to say
no they bring the bread at the
restaurant and they stick it in front of
you it's just freshly made with butter
what are you gonna
do so this you get some pleasure
sensation but an ugly body later in
life so
so it's really a
trap it really
is
um check this out for a better life for
let's see for a better start in life
start Cola earlier so this this
advertising is just crazy so really
you're GNA give your your kid Cola
starting out I mean that's crazy now
look at this which is fattening
grapefruit or three teaspoons of sugar
and this is kind of like the the
strategy the sugar uh comp use they say
well it's it's less calories so you can
eat it but I hope everyone knows this on
this webinar if you don't know this I'm
GNA tell you right now and this is very
very important let me
just tell
you the whole calorie counting is
completely and utterly bogus it's
basically what those calories are if
you're consuming sugar in small amounts
it will block fat burning small amounts
of sugar can pull you out of fat burning
for 48 hours especially if your
metabolism is
low um so even though it's low calorie
those sugar calories are converted into
fat calories by insulin that's how it
works so you can't go by
calories okay let's get back to the
slides the effects on sugar destroying
our pop population it's making everyone
turning everyone into especially
children I mean it's just insane I mean
can you imagine not only do you get you
don't even sugar is too expensive they
don't use it anymore use high FR corn
syrup which is even more deadly for your
blood sugar so here this kids eating
high fruit is corn syrup but like a huge
container of it fries meat and bread and
ketchup and sugar I mean that's like a
massive amount of insulin being pumping
through his veins right now and that's
being con everything's being converted
to
fat and he's retaining a lot of water
too now let's talk about the other
addiction um
gluten see gluten is interesting because
it makes the bread so delicious it gives
it that gooey
crispy
yummy um
taste and um it basically uh it's a
combination of several
proteins that because gluten is a
protein but it's in a carb um
surrounding but basically it traps a lot
of air so it makes it really gooey and
spongy it's it's like a rubber if you
took gluten this is a demonstration of
gluten it's so elastic you can blow it
up with air you can stretch it like a
rubber ball that's what you're eating
that's what makes it taste so uh the
texture is so good so gluten is a huge
uh
addiction uh because so many people love
bread I mean I remember I think early
30s I was driving in the street I was
eating a loaf of French bread by myself
I was down on that thing I don't even
understand what I was thinking and I
knew my stomach hurt so bad from that
because the allergy
gluten has been
modified uh in the US and other
countries and it can really tear up your
stomach and act like a microb and cause
arthritis and a lot of diseases Celiac
and um a whole bunch of other arthritic
type symptoms so gluten uh will put you
in some serious pain so here we have the
top foods that are so pleasurable that
will give a person so much pain if they
keep eating it it's a
trap so my story this my story as a kid
um I would live on sugar my grandmother
was the best uh cook she would cook me
these huge cakes look at this this is
like a a train cake this one's a guitar
cake I I seriously I would eat the whole
thing every year consume massive amounts
of sugar and then I start getting
heartburn then I get an
ulcer then I started having digestive
problems then arthritis this is one my
uh probably 20 25 26 and the arthri was
in my fingers in my back my eyes were
bloodshot couldn't sleep chronically
fatigued I was going down so that was my
story I had so much fatigue it was crazy
so um basically I have a lot of the
symptoms that a lot of patients have and
um so I can relate to
them I want to quickly just answer any
questions
now some people are asking can you
consume Ezekiel Bread Ezekiel bread is a
lot healthier because it's a sprouted
bread and I think it's it's fine for
some people um if you're trying to lose
weight you probably don't want to do
it um but yes gluten was modified
genetically and it's been um it's been
changed and that's why we're having such
a problem in this country because in the
old days um when we had the original
grains were much
easier to
digest um someone says I can tolerate
bread if I make it myself well you could
probably tolerate it if you could grind
your own grain grind your own grains and
then make your own bread but because the
flour that you buy to make the bread
sits in the shell for six months so it's
pretty
bad uh so Stephanie as how long did it
start to feel better oh it took me years
it took me years to feel better because
I didn't know what was wrong I'd be
driving down the street and um
I would be um with my wife trying to
figure out um maybe we should go to that
health health health food store and I'd
be driving the street and see this uh
yellow building called the health house
so maybe they can help me go in there
come out with a bunch of
pills start taking more vitamins I would
I had a warehouse full of vitamins I was
trying to find something to get my
energy boosted but I had no one to
evaluate why I was fatigued I I actually
probably was the most unaware patient
that I've ever had that I I mean that
ever was I was like had an absence of
information on health it was
terrible um what about organic wheat
well that would mean it's non GMO but
the problem is that these grains will
suck your energy they make you
tired um I don't have a sweet tooth I
have a crunch or snack craving like nuts
and popcorn well you can do the nuts and
how about some celery or you can bake
some cheese and that's crunchy um and
there's some other snacks you can do
with um in the dehydrator with onions as
well um but it took me years to start
getting better until um I found a doctor
in Philadelphia an alternative Doctor
Who Um checked me and and said it was my
liver and that made so much sense to me
and that's when I started to get some
seriously uh I mean I started seriously
getting interested in in getting better
and um obsessed about learning myself
so I started going to every single
seminar reading everything I can because
I started to feel better and I'd never
stopped learning so let's see I've had
uh what about whole grain bread with
nuts now sorry that's why I said before
the seminar you want to know the truth
right is the truth you you can't do it
it's not good right now especially with
your if you're trying to increase your
energy okay someone says I tried the
keto diets for two months can't digest
fat so I started uh
[Music]
um bloating so much and had pain yeah
like you have to have a good gallbladder
to digest those fats so you're going to
have to take the gallbladder uh formula
and start to cut down on the fats
because you have to be able to digest
the fats um how long does it take for
someone who ate sweets all their life to
get into ketosis we'll cover that right
now let me just pull up my
slides um well not quite right now I
want to talk about the insulin symptoms
first now check this out insulin is one
of the root causes to a lot of
illnesses look at this fatigue loss of
vision I mean think about the symptom of
a diabetic they they lose their
Vision Parkinson's
depression there's a type of it's called
Diabetes Type 3 where you you uh you
deplete the oxygen in your brain and you
start getting dementia and and problems
with your cognitive function so that's
very common when you consume a lot of
sugar but you know that can be reversed
if you change the way your habits heart
attacks why because of the conversion
like anyone that has high cholesterol I
will guarantee they're eating too many
carbs because it's the it's like it's
almost mathematical if you just cut down
those carbs the cholesterol comes right
down and so does the
triglycerides it's it's like
it in fact you wouldn't even necessarily
need to give up any eggs or any fat just
cut out the carbs and it will will come
down insulin
resistance um what that is is when you
actually have so much insulin flowing
through your veins um your body will
reject it at the liver level in The
receptors so it kind of starts putting
these earplugs in there and starts
blocking it and that's called insulin
resistance so now we have a high level
of insulin but we can't absorb it
anymore so we have symptoms of maybe low
blood sugar but we have high blood sugar
in other places so it's it's really a
weird thing so type Diabetes Type 2 is
considered insulin
resistance um okay so because we don't
have the insulins to connect to the cell
through the liver into the blood to be
able to turn down the sugar so the sugar
uh blood level stays high so then they
that's where they use metformin and
that's a drug to make the receptors
receive insulin more so it can absorb it
more but again you're just you're
camouflaging the real problem what you
need to do is just cut out the sugar
okay um what happens is the um sugar
depletes a lot of nutrients B vitamins
calcium and vitamin C and then what that
can do is it can create um anxiety it
can create um increased pulse rate it
can cause
cramping so sugar is also very
inflammatory and the more you eat it the
more you crave it uh it will block your
um your weight loss I want to save that
for the next few few slides but uh prip
neuropathy that's a condition where your
fingers and your toes and your hands go
numb and they get tingling okay so
that's a that means that your nerves are
dying and the way that works is that
when you have high levels of sugar it
depletes the B vitamins that help the
nerve work correctly so one one
treatment for periphal neuropathy is a
product called nerve support formula
that I use that basically puts the B
vitamins in there and resolves the
symptom but you also have to fix the
habit of eating too much sugar to really
correct
it uh cancer uh cancer lives on sugar so
wouldn't it make sense to not eat sugar
to if especially if you're at
risk polycystic OV polycystic ovarian
syndrome what that is that's a
condition that is caused by sugar or too
much insulin because every single case
that I've ever seen of polycystic
ovarian syndrome has insulin
resistance
so is the PCOS causing the insulin
resistance or is the insulin resistance
causing the
PCOS it's the insulin resistant that is
causing the PCS because as soon as you
get the sugar out of the diet those
polycystic ovarian problems go away I
mean in fact any cysts go away cyst on
the uh cystic acne goes away and
improves um those boils that kind of
come on the back of your knees go away
that's a blood sugar thing these are
just interesting little extra things
that I found so acne um I mean think
about how much sugar that I ate I had
acne really bad if I only known better
that would have been a lot better
because I I Tred to cover it up with my
hair and it was just terrible uh
bloating uh weight gain high cholesterol
Harding of the arteries a fatty
liver high blood
pressure why does it cause high blood
pressure because insulin and this is
like well
researched insulin um will raise the
blood pressure so and also um the amount
of sugar that you consume in there will
alter the electrolytes as well so when
you eat sugar you retain sodium and you
deplete potassium thereby increasing
blood pressure and increasing pulsate
dementia we talked about that brain fog
definitely brain fog I mean I remember
going I was getting married and we were
going to go find some cakes and this is
in San Diego we were trying to find a a
wedding cake and at that time I was okay
with eating cakes uh and we started
sampling cakes and then we went to a
restaurant at an Italian restaurant they
had a pizza they had cake they had wine
they had dessert and we kept eating EA
and eating and then we look around and
everyone was going away or they were
leaving and this guy with a with this
tray of all the cakes he was going past
us and he said do you guys want to
sample one of these because we're going
to shoot these out and of course I
didn't want to waste all that good food
so we started consuming all those cakes
to the point where when I went home my
heart was pounding out of my chest
because I depleted all my potassium
reserves and um I couldn't sleep the
enti Tire night and the next day I woke
up all just swollen and puffy because of
the water retention um so
again that was very very uh
bad okay
so let me double check any
questions garbanzo
beans um you know what garbanzo beans
are not a bad thing to consume they're
very they actually have no sugars and
they do have some carbs but it's l like
GIC and so you can do some of those and
even in a
um you can also do some kidney beans if
you want especially if you're a
vegetarian and you can also do hummus
how much natural sugar should you
consume such as an apple um you
shouldn't consume any natural sugars I
know that's pretty hardcore but if
you're trying to lose weight and trying
to increase energy what I'm telling you
in this webinar if you will just follow
it and just feel the energy you won't go
back I have so much energy I will never
go back to my old habits because now I
know what it feels like and I went back
and forth to convince myself but uh
unfortunately apples have 19 grams of
sugar so some people have a sensitivity
like I do and I can't do any uh fruits
um maybe you can but I would try to look
like bring it down to zero if you could
does sugar cause poly cystic uh kidney
disease um I don't know but I know um
that if you can cut out the sugars and
change the diet um you will be greatly
improved because I've seen that happen
over and over and over I don't know if
it's just a sugar or a bunch of other
things
um okay so someone says I on a keto diet
for four months now take oxes have great
energy but difficulty inhaling
especially in the morning okay so that
means that your pH is to acid okay so
let me explain what I mean by that when
you're doing ketosis and I have some
videos on ketosis that means you're
eating no sugar okay um you're going to
start generating um a lot of acids in
your body because uh keto acidosis means
that that you're breaking down um these
particles into fat and then it's down
I'm sorry breaking down into these acids
so your pH will not be alkaline it'll be
too acid and your breathing will be you
might need more um oxygen for that so
the way to resolve that is to take an
alkalizing mineral take take some
calcium
magnesium just take I would I would
suggest taking before you go to bed but
you can even take it in the morning take
one or two on before you eat like about
an hour before you eat because you don't
want to take it with the meal so that
will alkalize you a little bit and then
you'll start breathing better
okay because you're too acid uh most
people are too
alkaline
okay but breathing problems that's
that's an acidosis situation let me see
if there's another
question ah yeah I thought in your seven
principles of fa buring the book that
you wrote you recommend an apple a
day Sheila you're right that is in the
book um but I changed the
recommendations so I I updated the book
that recommendation I'm constantly
adapting and and improving things so
yeah that's that's not a good idea I'm
sorry uh mauce says what about berries
well if you're trying
to well just hang on there we'll we'll
get to that zyol totally fine what about
gluten-free well the problem with
gluten-free is that
yeah you'll get rid of the gluten and
it'll help your digestion but it's still
going to be grains so it's still going
to turn into
sugar so uh what about sweet
potatoes no only if you're trying to
gain weight what I recommend sweet
potatoes Mark says grains are on the
food pyramid yes they are and the food
pyramid is really the same is the feed
lot pyramid and um it's highly political
and I do not go along with the food
pyramid at
all let's see I had keto acidosis from
metformin wow yeah that's one of the
side side effects uh because um it
creates um actually creates lactic
acidosis which is makes you really acid
so the keto diets won't do that uh
especially if you consume more B
vitamins so if you're um Maria would you
know the problem is metformin is just
you know has some serious effect so if
you cut down the sugar you won't need to
even take
Metformin um how do you get your
gallbladder working um that's a good
question Stephanie um we'll answer that
in a little bit but I would recommend
probably the gallbladder formula that
would help what about Stevia totally
fine can you overdo the gallbladder
formula well sometimes because the gall
blood formula I have um is slightly
alkaline if you have already Al stomach
and you take it you may feel a little
bit of kind of U indigestion with it so
if that happens just take one for
breakfast and then you'll be fine um but
I added Bane hydroc chloride in there so
it shouldn't be a problem how do you
feel about coconut nectar no that's a
hidden sugar
unfortunately you guys have some good
questions here since I went off sugar
and carbs I have had a ton of energy and
my Cravings have gone away Linda from
Arizona that's awesome and that's my
experience too what about the weak Rass
juice powder uh how can I sweeten
that um well you don't want to sweeten
that you want to just put it in some
water and just chug it down um but it's
pretty
smooth okay so someone says that um I'm
convinced that sugar is my big problem
managing my energy uh but how is it that
when I go on a juice fast my energy
Rockets well that's
because let's see aches and pains
disappears and I sleep great well that
is
because um if I want to if you actually
consume just juice and you're doing it
all day long you're basically not
allowing your sugars to drop so it's
it's constantly stimulating your blood
sugar so you're going to feel pretty
good but it's as soon as you come off
that it's not going to be good and it's
it's creating a lot of strain on insulin
our bodies just were not designed to
consume
that concentrated juice so I mean think
about it you could drink I could drink
Gatorade right now and I could feel
really good for from that I mean it just
feels it brings me up because it gets my
it might bring my um my energy up but
it's going to come down it's G to come
down in about 20 minutes so I have to
drink it again it's it's a trap so now
we're going to talk about the solution
okay you guys ready for this I don't
think you're ready for this I think we
better hold off until next week no I'm
just kidding okay so here's a better
solution what we want to do there's two
fuel sources we want to um run our body
on fat fuel it's very rare for anyone to
run on actual fat very few people burn
fat most people are burning sugar fuel
that is how the body is designed it's
designed to always burn sugar before fat
in fact the purpose of fat hear me if
you guys have checked out right now
check back in because I really want you
to get this definition of this purpose
of fat purpose of fat is to protect you
against the
starvation of sugar okay it's there to
protect you against the starvation of
sugar so if there's no sugar guess what
you'll burn fat so guess what that means
that means you have to starve your sugar
so we can use fat as the backup Fuel and
this is the confusion of low carb diets
they're not low enough we want to bring
the sugar down to zero think about this
fat has three times as much energy than
sugar your brain can run on the
breakdown of fat called ketones and it's
a cleaner fuel source sugar fuel is
diesel fuel fat fuel is a wonderful
clean fuel it's almost like uh one of
those electric uh cars because it it
gives no ex I mean hardly any exhaust
and um when I run my body on fat my
brain is so much sharper and I don't
have this heaviness in my head and that
funky weird
lethargy so what I'm telling you is if
you want to increase your energy this is
the number one way to do it is to change
over now how do we do that we're going
to have to cut out the sugar completely
and utterly
and I'm talking about the hidden sugars
I'm talking about the fruit I'm talking
about the bread the pasta the cereal the
cracker the biscuit the waffle the
pancake the muffin but that's the bad
news the good news is you can consume
alternative foods to those that you like
on my videos I have a lot of different
alternative Foods I have a pizza I have
cookies recipes that all have no sugar
there's even a little on my website you
can download a a book on alternative
recipes
that I have so I will give you a lot of
Alternatives but it has to not involve
sugar okay so that's really the strategy
that we're going to do to increase your
energy um if you're doing a low carb
diet um and you still have a little
sugar in there your body will
start uh feeling kind of like um weird
because you you'll like start craving
sugar because you have you'll have low
sugar in order to burn fat it you have
to starve your body body of that sugar
so now your system is not running on
that up and down sugar blood sugar thing
anymore so you don't have the highs and
lows you don't have the fatigue and you
don't have the hypoglycemia you don't
have the irritability
anymore um this process of converting
over could take two weeks though because
your body has to make new enzymes and
new cells to break down fat so it's not
going to happen overnight but let's say
you did this for two months and your
body is in the shirt in the fat birding
mode right and then one day you drink a
half a glass of orange juice or a half a
glass of wine or a cookie not many
calories but that will enough to bump
you out of fat burning for 48 hours and
the reason for that is that it took a
while to get in the ketosis and it's
very easy to be bumped out of it what
you probably should do is hang in there
for a period of time until you hit your
goal
way and then once you're close to that
see how many carbs you can get away with
because by that time your system will be
a lot better you'll give your pancreas a
chance to heal so L low carb versus low
uh no sugar is is what we're dealing
with we want to go no sugar we don't
want to go low carb this is this uh
video this webinar is beyond the low
carbs and so you want to start reading
labels the ones that say read the sugar
labels and you want it zero or less than
one
gram okay
all right so any question on that let me
just make sure you guys don't have any
questions okay so can you provide a meal
plan for someone that needs to lose
weight yeah well guess what um the same
eating plan to get energy is the same to
lose weight it's the exact same thing
I'm going to give you some tips today if
you want to get the complete version you
can look at my past on midsection weight
and cortisol because I cover more of the
the weight loss in that one how do I
transition to fat burning on a regular
basis um well keep re keep watching this
this webinar and we're going to show you
how to do it but it starts with start
cleaning out all the carbs that you have
in the in your house what is a good
alternative to corn starch for making
sauces um you could do um almond flour
uh let's see here now some of you are
asking some questions that are a little
too long so in this webinar I can't read
them if they're really long I like the
real quick ones because you
know I just have to go quick because I
have to get through a lot of information
um the sugar alcohols cancel out the
carb um calories no they don't sugar
alcohols are fine especially Athol and
xylol those are the two ones that I like
um the other ones our borderline because
they can create some diarrhea things
like that uh what about the cranberry
drink that you recommend in your
book yeah well um it does have a little
bit of sugar um and so it it can be a
problem if you're trying to lose weight
but honestly I have not it's kind of
bitter so I've not found a problem on
most people but I will take out the
cranberry unsweetened cranberry juice if
the person is still not able to lose
weight and that's the last thing that
I'll pull out and then they'll start
losing weight so it's kind of like a
gradient thing of of just keep knocking
things out until finally the person is
able to lose weight but some people have
to cut out more than others uh hidden
labels showing hidden sugars well you're
just going to have to look at the
ingredient section to make sure it
doesn't have monosodium glutamate
MSG and um some of the like
dextrose how long does it take to heal
the pancreas well it could take it could
take eight months it could take six to8
months months to heal that thing but it
really depends on how much you burnt it
out I've had diabetics type one that are
completely off all
medications um and they're um they're
still in healing mode but at least they
don't need to take medication
anymore can we eat beans um only if
you're a a strict vegetarian but I don't
think um if you're if you're a meat
eater and you will consume eggs and
maybe a little cheese um and you're
trying to lose weight uh I probably
wouldn't recommend consuming beans
um beans have do have a bit too many
carbs um good mood boo mood booster why
do I feel happy when I eat carbs okay so
that's a very good question why do you
feel happy when eat carbs because carbs
have a drug effect on the body they
trigger various
hormones um especially
serotonin
so um when you consume them especially
like bread you feel wonderful you come
up and then you kind of come down so
that pleasure that Happy Feeling can be
achieved when you get into a state of um
fat burning as well you don't have to
consume carbs to be happy um but I'm
telling you it's a it comes with a
package that
pleasure turns into pain later in life
okay now this is a very very important
tip for all of you um and it was it was
like the probably the one of the most
amazing um things that I've ever
experienced when I um was very very
hypoglycemic that means low blood sugars
I had I was traveling around the country
because my eyes were so bloodshot and
they were so puffy and irritated I
didn't know what to do I was like I need
some help and then I read a book called
um it was called entering the Zone I
think no mastering the zone and it had a
little paragraph in the first part where
it said you have a protein breakfast and
I said a protein breakfast that's
interesting because I eat Life cereal so
I started to consume I had a buffalo
burger and about a half hour later I'm
like oh my gosh I feel like a helmet has
just lifted from my
head so I said you mean to tell me all
these years it was all that carbohydrate
I didn't it clicked it was like this
huge bul so idele Davis was a famous
nutritionist and Harvard University did
a study and they found that if you have
a protein breakfast your blood sugars
are the most stabilized stabilizing
influence of the entire day including at
night and will prevent Cravings at right
right around um dinner time or after
dinner if you had that protein breakfast
so this would be the first thing to
change if you want to switch over into
um um more of an energy day is that
protein breakfast now what do I consume
I do four eggs I do um some organic
bacon I do um sometimes I'll do a little
hamburger meat sometimes I'll do organic
sausage sometimes I'll do cheese
sometimes I'll do avocado on that um
I'll do mushrooms so I will do always do
eggs now if you don't if you're allergic
to eggs then I would do some other
animal protein but you need to start off
with a protein breakfast without any
bread without any carbs at all
the mo this is the most important thing
now what happens when you skip breakfast
very very bad because you are going to
end up uh being highly irritable right
around lunchtime um because your blood
sugars is going to crash so consume
something but don't stuff yourself but
have something so this is a very
important tip the protein
breakfast okay and if you consume a
protein breakfast and let's say you're
hungry right around 11 o' then that
means you should have added more fat to
your breakfast maybe some cheese maybe
some coconut oil maybe you need to add
avocado maybe some peanut butter um add
a couple more eggs you know to your your
diet but you want to be able to go from
breakfast to lunch without starving okay
so that this tip alone if you're not
doing this will be huge huge your
Cravings will go away just with that
what do you eat for lunch I would do
started with a a huge salad or a
vegetable always have the vegetable
first uh put whatever you want on it if
you want different types of vegetables
and things like that olives whatever and
then have a little bit of protein with
that what do you do for dinner same
thing keep it simple what do you snack
on maybe some cheese maybe some nuts um
but we don't want to go into the carb
angle we want to go we don't want to go
into the fruit we want to stick with
some Vegetables and protein right now
and your energy will start coming up
okay so
now I'm going to quickly go into the
rest of the summer because I've spent a
little too much time on the sugars but I
hope you got the point and I think it
was important let's go into sleep this
is the other cause of fatigue uh if
you're not sleeping um if you're not
sleeping it' probably be good idea to
watch the last seminar I did on the
midsection right in the cortisol um
because I talk about sleep um and stress
and what to do but sleep is necessary
for the recharging effect for energy um
normally we're supposed to go to bed at
10:30 that's the normal circad wave if
you miss that and you go to bed like at
12:30 you missed the wave you're gonna
have to wait a little bit before you're
tired sometime so um if you can follow
this Rhythm this circadian wave you can
work with your body and have a better
sleep so you want to be in bed by maybe
10:30 start going to sleep boom sleep
for seven eight hours and you wake up
that's the ideal scene um how do you if
you have a sleep problem um how do you
get rid of it well there's a couple
things you can do um one change your
diet number one sugar and then the other
thing too um we have to look at why
you're not sleeping um it could be
stress it could be sleep apnea which is
a kind of a obstruction from your
breathing because your your um your back
of your sinuses are kind of swollen and
these are just remedies that iite
recommend for sleep happeny it's a D3 K2
gallbladder formula that combination um
again I talk about this on the cortisol
seminar but I'm just going to quickly go
through it right here um if you're if
you have a lot of stress and you're you
can't wind down um easily do the adrenal
night formula that's that thing will put
you right out I I take one right before
I go to bed and within five minutes I'm
out and and go to the website and get
get it you just need one before bed hi
flashes will keep you up ovarian support
formula take three before bed and you
should not have hot flash after that
because it supports the pituitary and
the ovary and the adrenal All In All in
One um combination now here's something
interesting if you had a history of
being an athlete or a lot of activity of
exercise as in high school or college
but now you don't you're not as
active what happened you stretched out
your mitochondria those are the little
energy factories in your cells I mean
they've adapted to this incredible
energy and now you basically your body
um holds a lot more energy than than
you're using because maybe you're
sedentary so with those people which
includes myself I was in the military
for five years plus wrestle in college
Plus in high school um so I have to
constantly um use up that energy I can't
go to work and go home and go to bed I
have to go and get in my bike every
single day or go run or go to the gym
and work out so just realize that I have
to use up that energy or you might want
to use up your energy so when you go to
bed you don't have that excess energy at
2 o'clock in the morning while you're
looking at the
ceiling okay stress there's an
acupressure um technique that I have uh
combined with the adrenal KN formula
this again I talk about this in the
cortisol seminar but this really will
help you sleep and it's a tool that you
can use uh before you go to bed um just
to pull stress out okay I just wanted to
review that now uh I want to quickly
answer some questions before I get into
the next section because I'm kind of
going A to B here what about hemp
protein um yeah fine that's uh that's
totally fine just don't smoke the hemp
um before you eat the hemp um let's see
here why does high protein plain yogurt
cause constipation uh good question um I
don't know I'm not sure about that
question um C Katie a read and live by
lell Davis yeah she has some lot of
great data um what about
veggies yeah I highly recommend them do
you think sprouted grains are healthy to
consume
moderately um good question you have to
be able to digest them and you also um
have to be in a situation when you're
not trying to lose weight but I don't
think there I think you can get a lot
more nutrition through other things
should we eat low low fat no don't worry
about low fat eat Whole Foods don't uh
because the low fat usually is replaced
by high
sugar does no carb mean no veggies no no
no you can do as many vegetables as you
want in fact you need to and that's be
that's where you get all your vitamins
and
minerals um
do you ever uh have the organic uh
Bulletproof Coffee now if you're doing
one um one of those a day a small one
and you you basically take um MC U
medium chain triglyceride oils or you
can take coconut oil and then you blend
it with some butter you can do that some
people are trying to lose weight that
might be a problem because they might
burn the fat that they're drinking
versus the the fat on their body but if
you're not trying to lose weight I mean
go for it I think it's better than just
straight coffee because it adds that fat
in
there
um what do you do for sugar Cravings
exactly what I'm talking about now will
get rid of your sugar Cravings because
you're going to avoid sugar and then
you're not gonna your body's going to
switch over to burn fat and and the way
that you know that you're burning fat is
you crave no
sugars
okay is the circadian rhythms the same
for uh night owls yes it's the same for
everyone if you're on planet Earth
because we're all set to the same um
patterns because we're on the same
Planet late cramps at night um simply
take some calcium magnesium and that
should handle it if it doesn't there's a
video on cramps there's four different
causes just ordered the adrenal night in
ACU pressure tool can't wait to try both
you're going to love it
Nina um I use I mean I use both each and
it works really good um I use that tool
my wife's like would you please just put
that tool away because you need to work
on my my back but I actually use it on
my spine um before I go to bed it's kind
of like a it's like a self
massage okay good dark chocolate dark
chocolate doesn't have caffeine but it
has a stimulant so um it will boost you
but if you have maybe a little bit an
early day um try it and it see if it
affects your sleep it might not be a
problem it might it depends on you know
your um sensitivity to that stimulant
but I wouldn't recommend it before bed
that's for sure okay so here's another
cause we talked about sugar we talked
about sleep now we're going to talk
about vitamin
C vitamin C deficiencies scurvy now you
may have heard of scurvy being a very
severe deficiency with people and people
say well oh people don't have scurvy
nowadays yes they do um vitamin C
deficiencies uh will create some serious
fatigue and microh hemorrhaging of of
the capillaries and this is the skin of
someone with scurvy right here look how
many people have that and rosacea is a a
mild version of scurvy because see
here's the thing you don't want to wait
until you're a
full-blown massive vitamin C deficiency
scurvy you know where your gums are all
spongy and bleeding and you're getting
nose bleeds you can have a small
beginning of scurvy and it can show up
as rosacea or micro Heming which is
bleeding of your capillaries or spider
veins or vericose veins that's all a
mild version of
scurvy so the vitamin C complex is
composed of an outer shell of ascorbic
acid which is not the active ingredient
at all and then has B
flavonoids and then organic CER copper
in an enzyme form is called tyrosinase
I'm sorry to give you these big words
and then vitamin P K and J um and so
there's a whole bunch of things in
normally in nature in the vitamin C
complex vitamin C is not just ascorbic
acid in nature in nature um plants never
come in this form ascorbic
acid most vitamin C sold in United
States in other countries it comes from
China and they make vitamin C with with
sulfuric acid and corn starch cornstarch
has no vitamin C so how are they going
to get something from nothing they make
it
synthetically now there's a lot of uh
people that take a scorc acid and feel
better from it when they had the
flu but it's not because of the scorc
acid it's because of the
acid I believe that most people are tend
to be a little too alkaline and when
they take more acids it stimulates the
immune system because it increases the
uh um these things called thyes that
help stimulate the immune system there's
even another therapy out there called
hydrochloric acid therapy where they
inject you with hydrochloric acid they
drop your pH and you actually you can
heal from a lot of diseases from that so
I think it's really the same the
benefits of a Scorpi acid the problem
taking ascorbic acid is it creates
deficiencies of these other factors I
had a patient who um had cancer and so
he did scorc acid therapy of
100,000 milligrams injected he ended up
with the worst microh hemorrhaging and
his uh he had spider veins on his nose
like lonus Pauling had who had the Nobel
priest I think he had a Nobel Prize for
vitamin C um it creates deficiencies of
these other
factors now why am I talking about this
I'm talking about it because if your
vitamins have synthetic vitamin C and
the way you know that if it's more than
100
milligrams on your
bottle and it doesn't come from actual
food because it says in a label then
that could be one of the reasons why
you're tired because it'll actually
create a deficiency
of the uh other factors and vitamin C is
needed to build adrenal hormones the
adrenal glands need Vitamin C as the
material the
precursor
so one problem taking the wrong type of
vitamin C will create a weakness within
the adrenals and cause adrenal fatigue
on the other hand a stressed out adrenal
will deplete the vitamin C Reserve that
you had and cause
fatigue so vitamin C is NE necessary to
actually improve your
energy and to get rid of vitamin C
issues I'm sorry uh like vitamin C
deficiency issues like the
scurvy
so vitamin C is in fresh Citrus water
Cris Peppers papaya kiwi which again
we're trying to get rid of the fruit
cruciferous vegetables that would be
like kale broccoli brussel sprouts and
organ
Meats yeah I know I didn't I didn't know
that either until I looked that up uh
liver I can't eat it but I mean if you
like liver and organic that wouldn't be
a bad idea vitamin C is also very
necessary for collagen production so
let's say you have varicose veins or
spider veins and you want to get rid of
them well you're you lo you had loss of
this collagen so you would need to take
a lot you just want to start increasing
your vegetable content to get the
vitamin C necessary to build up the
collagen uh to get rid of those veins
but this loss of collagen that happens
in the spider veins also H is happening
in the larger veins it's happening in
different places you could have a nose
bleed it's happening in the skin as
rosacea it's happening um in the
arteries yes um it can even happen in
the arteries of the brain the arteries
around the heart and guess what your
body does to heal that micro hemorrhage
it it creates a Band-Aid guess what that
Band-Aid is
cholesterol and
calcium so all these clogged arteries
and these plaing of the arteries that
they only happen in areas where there's
micro hemorrhaging because of the
vitamin C deficiencies because of the
mild version of scurvy people that have
these clogged arteries do not consume
the quantities of vegetables to get the
vitamin C to prevent
the micro Heming and thus prevent the
clogging of the arteries so it's not the
cholesterol that you're eating that's
clogging the arteries that's laid on the
chain of events because the cholesterol
really only goes to fix the purpose of
cholesterol is to fix the damaged
arteries so this is a kind of probably a
new theory for you that um that's like
the under underlying mechanism to heart
disease I really believe it's a vitamin
C deficiency and it could be created
from adrenal stress or a lack of eating
enough vitamin C
foods and you think you're you're
drinking your uh orange juice in the
morning getting vitamin C you're really
not or you're taking your vitamins
you're not getting your vitamin C
because it's synthetic it's a scorc acid
that's not the real vitamin
C uh vitamin C is destroyed by the
process of pasteurization well think
about it all the all the orange juice is
pasteurized it's
heated your adrenals store vitamin C's
now I threw a lot at you right now so I
have to quickly kind of go through and
see if um you guys have any questions
because I hope hope I didn't confuse you
okay what about the therapeutic grade
lemon oil I think that's great or lemon
juice I love it you know my favorite
type of lemon juice would be volcanic I
think it's called Volcano lemon juice I
actually have some refrigerator right
now I think I'll have some after this
webinar all right um let's see do you
recommend someone says do you recommend
200 grams of fats per day to get into
ketosis no no I I don't
recommend I suggest you watch the ketos
video that I have on that because I go
into detail and that'll answer that
question because um I still have a lot
more to
cover um how do you get your body
alkaline uh or acid by eating correctly
and your body will go to the right pH so
you don't really necessarily have to eat
more of one thing versus another uh
unless you're like doing ketosis and
your body is becoming more acid you
might need to alkalize it with more
vegetable and more
calcium how much vitamin C is in the
weak grass it's actually in the here's
the thing the weat grass juice is a very
concentrated um powder so you're getting
a lot of vitamin C from that but you
don't have to worry about the amounts
because it's in a very complete
complex so you're going to get what you
need from a teaspoon a day at least um
Can adrenal fatigue cause fatty
liver um yes because the high cortisol
can we eat zucchini absolutely turn-ups
yeah you can have turn-ups uh anytime I
have leg cramps I use vinegar it helps
yes because when you drop the pH you
mobilize the calcium and that go right
into your your your body
smart um but if you the Magnesium will
cause diarrhea yeah I know that's pretty
bad um can you buy a vitamin C
supplement I'm gonna recommend not
buying a vitamin C supplement
instead get a a food concentrate that
has a lot of vitamin C in it probably
the the thing that I would recommend is
the weak grass juice powder why because
it's it not only has a complete um
vitamin C complex it has all the trace
minerals it has it's grown on or um
ancient
seabeds it is uh nothing is heated over
six 100 106 degrees it has the B complex
it has it has all the vitamins not just
vitamin C but that will give you a lot
of uh vitamin C complexes it's called
wheat grass it's organic wheat grass
juice formula you can go to Dr Berg and
check it out um how much weight should
we be losing per week uh two pounds
would be really good if you have a slow
metabolism it might be one
pound so only get vitamin C from veggies
yes that's
correct that is
correct yes very good questions very
good questions okay good we're doing
we're making good progress here let me
kind
of let me try to click this thing
here
okay check this
out I think I I just wantan to I want to
I want to let this one concept sink in a
little bit okay since your adrenals
store vitamin C and adrenals control
stress stress will then deplete the
vitamin C Reserve inside your adrenals
but you're going to be okay because if
you keep the amount of vegetables very
high in the diet having at least seven
to 10 cups a day like I do you don't
have to worry about it because you'll
get your vitamin C if you if you enhance
your diet with some weak grass juice
you're going to be fine you can actually
get all the vitamin C you need so the
adrenals will be happy so you don't
necessarily want to just do a all
protein diet because it's not enough
vitamin
C okay
spider veins um we talked about that um
varicose veins we mentioned that that's
a vitamin C deficiency now we're going
to talk quickly about the thyroid um a
slow thyroid can cause um a problem with
fatigue but here's the Catch 22 most
thyroid problems are secondary to either
um a gallbladder problem because the
bile is deficient and the way you know
you have that is if you have right
shoulder pain you get bloating you get
constipation you can't you have night
blindness it's hard to see at night you
eat and you feel like you're not
satisfied after you eat you get bloating
burping belching after you eat then you
know you you need some help with the
gallbladder you can either do the
gallbladder formula or avoid what I'm
recommending with the foods or a
combination of both so you can start
healing that area of your body high
estrogen from a um an overactive ovary
will also cause a slow thyroid and
that's why when you're pregnant and you
have a baby your thyroid gets messed up
because of the massive amount of
estrogen well guess what food will lower
estrogen
cruciferous guess what food they tell
you not to consume if you have a slow
thyroid
cruciferous so what you want to
do um you can either consume the
cruciferous and add
calp that's what I would do add some cup
to the diet when you're doing
cruciferous um there's a product I have
called cruciferous complex that has calp
in it but that's see cruciferous is
anti-estrogen so it cleans up the
estrogen so it's actually really good
for the
thyroid and the last cause of a thyroid
problem would be an overactive adrenal
but that's more autoimmune and I have a
lot of videos online about that uh if
you have that problem you can watch
those but but I wanted to get
into um this this last part of the
webinar because I have 10 minutes to go
okay so because we're dealing with
energy and we're dealing with
mood um some people are irritable and
edgy that means they have low blood
sugar if they were to follow some of the
recommendations that I'm recommending
that problem would greatly improve the
other thing that they cons cons should
consume is uh vitamin
B1 um and that would be an either a
nutritional yeast that you can get from
the healthy store I do have it in my
adrenal day formula as well but that
gives you the natural B1 to help reduce
stress anxiety that's an adrenal issue
low
serotonin that's when you do the ACU
pressure on the adrenal depression
that's typically an ovarian or a thyroid
issue um I'm going to talk more about
the ovary in a little bit but um because
there's a seminar I'm going to be doing
um in three weeks that I want to talk
about and then brain fog that's the high
blood sugar situation
your mood should improve when
you follow the recommendations that I
talked about especially the protein
breakfast okay so now I am going to show
you an energy
technique okay so I'm G to talk to you
right now let me just make sure that you
guys don't have any really important
questions started taking uh Brown kelp
from Maine I think that's awesome raw
cerus is not good for the thyroid true
because it depletes iodine but why not
just add some
calp add some seelp that's all you need
to do you're not going to get a goer I
promise a goer comes from low
iodine you don't want to consume brewers
yeast you want nutritional yeast uh Bill
if you want to get the B vitamins
okay okay so now
I'm going to ask you guys a question I'm
going to teach you an acupressure
technique for
energy the good news is I have a video
of three
demonstrations of the acupressure
technique okay so I'm going to walk you
through it right now and then I have a
video to show you on three people I'm
going to demonstrate I did this video
today this morning and you can see three
people we took their energy from low and
brought it up high now how does this
work how can you do how can you raise
People's Energy with
acupressure well um one of the causes of
fatigue is uh an immune problem an
immune system
problem here's how it works let's
pretend that you had Mono Mono is
infectious manulis it's a virus that
invades the tonsils usually when you're
in high school or college and one of the
symptoms for that is is
fatigue so let's say you had Mono so you
had a virus and you get tired and then
20 years later you go through
stress certain stress dates especially
losses will cause the adrenal to cause
viruses to come out of
remission and you could cause one of the
symptoms of a mano which is fatigue
later in life so some of the viruses can
manifests as the fatigue not
just an
affection because viruses are not alive
you can't kill them they go in remission
and out of remission they're a little
piece of genetic material wrapped in a
sack and they come out when you're tired
burnt out and you're stressed and they
come out and beat you
up so there's three main locations of
viruses on our
bodies number one
one the ears the tonsils number two the
throat number three the lungs the
bronchial tubes so this acupressure
technique works on the principles of
opposites and it works on the opposite
side of the tonsils and the neck and the
back and you can stimulate these
locations in a way to help free up stuck
energy that you had in the past
so we're going to walk you through this
but I have to you have to answer a
question first before I get into it and
what I want to know out of all the
infections that you had growing up as a
child or a young
adult where did you have it mostly the
tonsils or the ears the throat or the
lung can you go ahead and answer
that yeah EP bar virus is mono so go
ahead and answer I want to know from
you of where did you have the biggest
problem was it in your throat was it in
your tonsils or was it in your
lung okay so some people had their
tonsils
removed well I wonder why you had them
removed did you have a tonsil problem or
they just take them
out okay you can have herpes yeah that's
the virus okay ears tonsils tonsils
throat tonsils tonsils throat wow
tonsils everyone's tonsil throat lungs
ears tonsils okay this is going to be
good you guys are GNA be you guys are
GNA be really happy you're on this
webinar because this is going to really
help you so
now here's what I'm going to show you
right
now so this is how you do the technique
number
one you want to
locate location of the fatigue you want
to locate where you're tired right now
go ahead and email me right now where
are you tired is it in your head is it
in your eyes is it in your
chest you might say it's the whole body
but where are you tired where's the
fatigue
located on your body
go ahead and answer
me that's step one we have to locate the
fatigue it's a weird question but try to
look and see where are you
tired I guess I this is a delayed
thing shoulders
head eyes eyes eyes eyes
neck eyes
head head okay good this is good
shoulders okay now this is interesting
this is actually very fascinating to me
because this I've never surveyed this
many people almost 400 people and
they're all saying the same thing I mean
check this out people are tired this is
weird you have fatigued in your eyes and
your head why is it in your whole body
why is it just in that location well
I'll tell you why in a second
but some of your fatigue is not coming
from your blood sugar problem some of
it's not coming from your sleep it's
coming from your immune
system
okay next question I want you to rate
your fatigue on a scale from one to 10
10 being full of energy zero being no
energy give me a number right
now okay so so number one we locate the
fatigue two we rate our fatigue and
three
we're going to do some serious ACU
pressure on these points that I'm going
to show you next and
um but before I show you that I have to
explain something I think I I might have
communicated this enough but um we're
dealing with viruses here we're dealing
with part of the immune system see when
you get a virus isn't an interesting
that the sore throats you you always
have like multiple or you get re re
incurrent infections why is that why do
the the the viruses always go to the
same location because that's where
they're stuck and they go in why do you
think you have a herpes on your lip and
and you and it always in is in the same
location or shingles pain because the
virus is kind of hang out in that one
location and they go in remission or out
of remission and that's why people can
can get a reactivation of the same
infection over and over and over and
over and over so what we're going to do
be what's happened in that area is it
created a lot of tension and stress in
your neck in your throat in your lungs
so this acupressure technique works by
extracting stress from those
locations and you will find your energy
is going to go straight up in vertical
okay so this frees up stuck energy so
it's not voodoo it's not weird it's very
very um effective and I'm just going to
recommend you do it on yourself or have
someone do it on you
and then you can uh send me your success
story okay but these these These Old
infections are very similar to open
applications on your desktop body
computer that we need to close but
you're not going to work on your throat
you're going to work on the opposite
side the back of the neck the upper back
and then this and you're going to
increase the capacity so let's start
with the tonsil area you're going to be
pressing on the back part right here
just underneath the skull for about you
know 20 20 30 seconds and your energy is
going to go
up tonsils are the same uh with the ear
infections same location and then the
sore throats are going to be in the neck
you might work on the lower part of the
neck the mid neck the upper back
wherever you had sore
throats and then the lung of the bronch
you you'll be working on the back
part okay so
now this is the next thing I want to
tell you
I have this
demonstration it's already close to an
hour and a
half what I can do is I can play this
right on this webinar for you it's 17
minutes or I can send you the
link so you can see the video after this
webinar the other option is I can end
off very shortly and I can just play it
as the last thing I can I can play it
the problem with this video is there's a
delay of 30 uh seconds or no it's uh
yeah I think it's like a minute or two
and so it kind of um the problem is that
it's if I play it I have to wait so it's
when you open up a video into this
program there's a huge delay and that's
why I'm hesitant about playing it so I
want to know if you guys are okay with
me sending you the link right now so you
can watch it or do you want me to try to
play it in front of you so let me
know okay everyone's like send me the
link well someone says play it on the
webinar okay so let me do this I'm going
to send you the link right now so you
have it so you can watch
this
because because some people are sleepy
okay so let me just send you the link
right now let me see here
let's see if this goes to
you did you get the
link everyone I think that went in let
me see did you get the
link okay don't watch it exactly right
now but just save the link and put it on
your computer right now did you get the
link
you got the link
right yes do send the link I just want
to make sure I just sent the link I want
to make sure you have
it okay good you got the link okay don't
watch it yet I'm not done with the
seminar the
webinar okay because this technique will
blow your way it's part of my
acupressure uh technique and um
I wanted to share some more information
with you right now okay you'll be able
to watch the three things and you can do
this yourself and you will be blown away
and your energy will increase you either
need someone to do it on you or if you
have the acupressure tool you could do
it on yourself easily okay now I've been
doing my own acupressure techniques for
the last 25 years I've trained
2500 doctors in the last 25 years so
I've developed a lot of different
techniques with
acupressure and and I'm showing you one
tiny little piece of it right
now um but I am doing a
seminar in three weeks October 3D at a
hotel down the street some of you that
are watching are local some of you are
not
local so I'm going to be recording this
seminar
okay this seminar is going to be from
12: until 4: on a Saturday on October
3rd and we're going to be teaching you
how to do acupressure on your body and
other people um I'm going to break it
down so anyone can understand this it's
going to be my first time I'm I'm
actually going to be revealing the
entire system um each each hour is going
to cover a different thing we're going
to talk about the acupressure for um the
endocrine system the body types how to
do ACU pressure on the adrenal
the ovaries the thyroid the liver how to
handle PMS menstrual cycle issues how to
handle heavy periods how to handle
thyroid issues and I'm not going to
claim to cure anything we just this is
just acupressure on the glands no one
does this they don't work on the glands
they work on acupressure points we're
not going to do acupressure on
acupressure points we're going to do it
on glands we're called it's called
acupressure because it's done without
needles using your hands but it's an
amazing technique and you can really
create some serious effects on your body
and other people as well so
um it's on the body types it's also
going to I'm going to show you on how to
get um rid of any pain
instantly chronic pain I'm going to talk
about referral pain which most pain is
referred from different organs we're
going to show you how to do that we're
going to talk about how to loosen up any
muscle in your body without stretching
it how to free up any joint that's stiff
how to handle nerve pain chronic pain
systemic pain that's like
fibromyalgia how to get rid of
inflammation with
acupressure um how to um stabilize your
mood with acupressure but this is a
physical thing not a mental thing this
if there is a physical reason like let's
say your ovaries are a problem and that
can create PMS well I'm going to show
you how to you literally can bring
someone so high you have to scrape them
off off the ceiling because it can
really affect the mood we're going to
talk about how to pull out a lot of
stress out of your
body would any one of you be interested
in learning some of these
techniques just comment because of the
delay I'm going to keep going how to
handle uh headaches low back pain neck
pain knee pain ankle pain midback
tightness fibromyalgia plan fasciatus
chronic pain all this stuff I'm going to
teach you guys I found that my
patients can learn this
technique better than some of the
doctors that I
trained so I'm going to teach it and I'm
going to record it okay the
seminar um the cost of the seminar is
going to be $250 because it's four hours
after October 3D but if you wanted to
get the information be if you get it
before it's
$99 and that includes if you wanted to
come out to my seminar even if you are
in a different location let's say you're
in a different state or something you
can still people are going to be flying
out for this seminar and but I don't
it's it's only limited to
um about 75 people so between 50 to 75
people so we're not going to do a really
big seminar because there's going to be
a lot of Hands-On but even if you can't
make it it will be
recorded and um we will have you can
have access to it if you want to get it
but I wanted to mention that
because
um a lot of people over the years have
asked me like how do you handle this and
I'm like oh gosh if you could only do
the acupressure on you that would really
handle it but you know they're not in
the area and so I developed to do it
yourself version and that's what I'm
talking about here so it's going to be
four hours it's going to be my complete
system U but the the probably the most
amazing stuff is for the the gland work
that we're going to teach you we'll
teach you how to work on the flight or
fight mechanism and I'll give you all
the Advanced Techniques and then we'll
be able to do it on each other and
you'll create some really cool effects
I'll give you a lot of examples I want
to be able to bring people up and work
on Old injuries as well because part of
um working on people is to list all
their old injuries whiplashes surgeries
because there's a technique to get rid
of that as
well and that really enhances sleeping
Okay so I'm going to just send you the
link if you're interested in coming out
or you wanted the seminar you can sign
up for it there's basically a pretty
good discount before you
um before you um come to the
seminar um and then after October 3rd
it's going to be the regular fee which
is 250 which is not that bad anyway
but okay so I just sent the link to
I don't know if you're going to get it
here let's
see so tell me if you got that
link I'll give you more information
about the actual seminar so
again um why don't I write a book
because the problem with the book it
would take me way too
long um to write it versus deliver it
with a video in fact you might ask how
come I have so many videos online I have
like 900 it's because it's a lot easier
to create a video than to write a whole
description um so it's just because of
my
time um so I'm going to do the video
it's going to be a seminar it's going to
be local in Virginia it's gonna I was
going to do it at the Gaylord hotel but
they wanted $2,000 for the tea and
coffee I mean the tea and water so I
said you know what I'm going to go to
the high down the street it's the mark
Hyatt um on Seminary um but for all the
people who sign up for it I will will
contact you to see if you wanted to fly
out or you just want us to give you
access once the uh seminar is delivered
in three weeks
but definitely uh something to um to
look at but um you're going to love it
so you have the link you have that and
so I think what I'm going to decide to
do is I'm just going to send send
you uh the link we already sent it to
you you can watch it but the last thing
I want to say is that um if anyone is
watching this as a uh a replay and not
live I am G to add the demo to the end
of this video so just keep watching
because you're going to see the demo
okay so that way we will'll combine the
whole
thing okay so so someone's confused it
says
um confused on how to pay sign up for
just a recorded web seminar yeah so
you'll basically um you go to Dr Berg I
sent you a link you go to the seminar
you sign up for the seminar and whoever
sign ups for the seminar is going to get
access to a link to the online video uh
the videos I don't know if it's going to
be in DVD yet unless you absolutely must
have that I prefer just to send you the
link so you can watch it online you can
watch it over and over as much as you
want but the um once you pay for it once
I deliver it I'll will send you the
links basically but I'm giving you a
discount if you want to get it before
the seminar um let's see can go to for
the price on the link let's see does it
say yeah so anyone who signs up for it
we I'll send you the location of it it's
right down the street it's a I think
it's 5,000 Seminary Road in Virg
Alexandri
Virginia and if you have any questions
just call my
office um
yeah it's going to be um it's going to
be an online access to the seminar so
it'll be four hours of pretty amazing um
footage now this technique a lot of the
technique that I'm teaching I taught my
doctors who paid thousands of dollars
and but I'm making it really simple for
the average person so it'll be um very
good if you wanted to take your skills
up um to the next level um um so the $99
will include the um both if you wanted
to fly out to the seminar and the links
together they're not a separate fee so
if you wanted to come out you can if
you're too far away then you'll just get
the
links
okay all right well thank you so much
for sticking in here an hour and a half
you guys were wonderful and uh I
appreciate your attention and your
compliments I really uh enjoy that
and um so go ahead and try to use watch
the video now or tomorrow and then check
it out and then uh s uh tell me how you
liked or how it affected your body with
your energy because your energy is going
to go up when you do this technique all
right all right have a wonderful night
and we'll talk to you guys soon hope to
see you at the
seminar hey it's Dr Burke here I'm going
to demonstrate this Tech technique on
increasing energy so we have our victim
I mean patient right here uh so so tell
me you're on a scale from well first of
all right now you're a little tired
right right now you did sleep last night
but you're still tired that's correct so
what step one we want to local uh
localize where the fatigue is like
locate where you're tired what part of
your body uh my back um the upper part
of my back into the mid mid part of my
back and then down to my shoulders and
and arms
okay so that's the location so step one
step two is to ask the rate at 10 being
full of energy zero being completely
exhausted give me a number four 4.5
that's pretty low so he is tired so now
the next step is to ask him out of all
the infections that he had growing up
because we're looking at the immune
system out of all the infections uh did
you have more tonsil problems throat or
lung uh tonsil problems okay um was it
like when you were a kid or maybe a
teenager or anything uh around teenager
and um probably yeah teenager into early
adulthood okay did anyone ever tell you
you had Mono gift to have okay so I'll
explain that in a second but let's go
ahead and do the treatment it's a four
so I'm going to have you
sit right here for me me and face that
way you can do this to yourself uh if
you have the massage tool which is right
here by leaning back at the level of if
we take the tonsils are back here we're
going to draw a line and do the back
part so we can do this right here or you
can have someone just take their fingers
and press exactly right
into the opposite location of where he
had the
tonsils um a tonsil problem
now as I do
this I'm going to just hold
this and you're going to you can ask
yourself this or ask the person that
you're doing this to uh it was a four
and a half tell me when it's a five as
far as your energy going
up it's about a five now five okay
good okay tell me when it's a six
six okay
good so we're just pressing exactly
right uh from the back part to the front
like straight through directly about one
inch to the left and one inch to the
left right underneath the skull you have
the skull bone right here and you got
the first bone right there we're
pressing into this area right here now
what this is doing this is releasing
some old tension that built up from from
when he had the the mono or the tonsil
issue so that releases that stuck energy
that's that was
created uh in the past so it's freeing
up energy flows through that area so we
can actually get more energy through the
body because it's not a matter of
raising energy it's a matter of removing
things that block energy okay so tell me
when it's at a
seven I think you went to an eight okay
I went to an eight good
tell me when it's a
nine
okay and then we'll go for a 10 whenever
you're whenever it goes a little
higher awesome okay good so you can sit
back back over
here you can sit down right
here okay so um so do you feel a little
bit different I do I feel more energized
your eyes look more awake and it look
looks brighter in here awesome that is
awesome now what did I just do um very
very very simple um mono is a virus you
can't kill a virus it goes in remission
and out of remission which means uh it
kicks in under stress and then when
stress goes away it kind of goes out of
remission so it goes dormant okay so
these viruses later in life can kind of
partially come out and create different
effects on the body whether it's
arthritis actual pain even fatigue
because if you think about what is the
biggest symptom during mono it's fatigue
chronic fatigue I had Mano so bad I
wanted to either die or get rid of it I
was like exhausted later in life when
you go through stress that virus is kind
of comes out of remission but it doesn't
show up as a full-blown infection it
shows up as one of the symptoms you
originally had and fatigue would be one
of them or stiffness so you should feel
loose in there you should feel um
brighter and um it just lifts that
energy now this it sounds almost like
you know Voodoo or magical it's not it's
totally physical and all I'm saying is
don't believe it just do it on yourself
and see what happens especially if you
had mon that's like a no-brainer when
also the other thing that this actually
helps um is Fibromyalgia big time uh so
people that have like achy joints and
stuff it helps but it's uh it'll just
perk someone right up just like in their
head they have like more energy um so
that is an example of how to increase
energy by handling the immune system
from someone that had tonsil issues and
and um issues with um um
fatigue oh thank you very much well
thank you you're
welcome okay in this next example we
have someone with fatigue thank you very
much for having the fatigue so we can
demo uh 10 being full of energy zero
being no energy give me a number six six
so it's it's not terribly low but it's
not very high um let's uh Step One is
locate where the fatigue is what part of
your body is tired
um it's a good question yeah everything
I mean okay so it's all over it's not in
like the eyes or the head or the body or
the feet or probably a little more in
eyes eyes Okay okay so it's about a six
yes okay now uh out of a when you're in
your history out of all the
infections throat tonsil lung where
where did it where was it throat throat
okay so very simple I'll show you what
to do on this one let's have you stand
up we're going to draw a line in the
back part of the throat and press
directly into different areas in the
throat like we'll start here and then
normally it'll be a little
tender but we're just going to
hold and just sustain pressure in there
for about an hour no I'm just kidding
about a minute now I'm going to come a
little lower because it's I want to find
out where the the tightness is and it's
right here it's right at the level of
about this is like
C5 right there and it's more on her left
side which is interesting so I'm just
going to press on the opposite place um
to the to the throat which is um right
on the back part and so we're
discharging pockets of old energy that
are entrapped in this area body
especially if she had repetitive sore
throats so she may have not have had
that but it's an area to free up a lot
of energy so now six so just tell me
when your energy is a
seven that's better good good uh would
it be a
seven sure okay good now the next
question is when tell me when it's an
eight okay good and most
important thing is don't mess up the
person's hair um so now just tell me
when it's a
nine a little hard to tell but I can
tell slight Improvement okay
good and then the next question is um if
you were to say there's some residual
fatigue left is it still in the eyes or
is it did it
move um must have Moon my eyes are
pretty clear okay so if we were to rate
your your eyes would they be a 10 right
now yes okay good is there any other
party about it that's TI tired no no
okay so pretty much we have what we want
because we don't have any more fatigue
so go ahead and sit right
here so
um so tell me what you feel like right
now good very alert feel kind of normal
don't have any fatigue yep I messed up
your hair but it still looks okay like
it feels loose yes totally was tight it
seemed like it was really tight yes um
so here's another example of we're
taking the immune system and removing
any type of old stuck flows in that part
of the body by working on the opposite
points and just as a demonstration to
improve energy so thank you very much
welcome okay
great okay so um so you have fatigue
first thing I want to do is locate is it
in your eyes your head your body where
is this fatigue
located yes everywhere okay body just
joint stiffness and pain and back pain
you're getting up it's hard to get out
of bed in the morning and get going but
once I get going I'm all right okay but
in the afternoon I slow down and need to
sit about 4:00 I'm done got it done for
eat my eat my dinner and I'm done for I
sit so we're going to work we're going
to work on a lot of the inflammation but
let's take just the fatigue all right we
going to rate that one what what is that
now or let's locate it where's the
heaviness or tiredness that you have
tiredness is when I breathe my whole
chest cavity feels heavy okay my head
feels stuffed up but I just don't feel
like I'm getting enough air So like um
so that could be like a fatigue like a
like a
heaviness okay so 10 being full of
energy zero being nothing left in the
bucket give me a number about three
three so that's pretty low now we're
going to work on her but she did not
sleep last night so that may influence
some of the results but we're going to
do it anyway um now out of all the
things that you had growing up as a
child uh ear uh which is the same area
of the tonsils tonsil ear infections
throat lung which one did you have I had
all of those okay out of all them what
was the worst the worst feeling that I
remember the worst was
um the pneumonia when I had the
pneumonia the lung the lungs okay right
so now what we're going to do is we're
going to do some acute pressure on the
opposite side of the lungs which is the
back part so if you could just stand
right here for a second now we could use
we could use this and if the person's
doing it themselves it' be the medium
one and they can lay back on this and
then someone's going to have to lower
this as they come down here but I'm
going to do it with my hand I'm going to
take these two fingers and we're going
to do the opposite these are the lungs
so we're going to do the opposite part
so I'm going to have if you stretch back
stretch look up to the
ceiling good go forward for me and so
we're going to stretch and stimulate the
back part and go down slowly go back
stretch stretch stretch stretch good go
forward good and then back all the way
good go forward and then
back go
forward and then back all the way
stretch stretch stretch stretch
good go forward
and then back all the way you got
it go forward and then back all the way
you got it that does not want to move
that does doesn't want to
move go
forward and then back all the
way good back all the way see we can use
this
too good back all the way
good go forward so you see I'm pre we're
pressing back and we're holding it for a
second or
two okay so now your energy was a three
now did it go to the four it's going up
I can tell I can breathe better good um
stretching that tightness out of my
lower spine yes
uh what's the number now is it a four
five six where's the energy now like a
five five okay um is the what is more
energetic your chest is that what's in
more I feel lighter lighter okay I feel
like I made that okay good so for the
fun of it let's just do the neck part we
can do with the massage tool or we can
do it with here because this is with the
sore throats in the past because you had
a lot of uh infections in your sore
throat right M so I'm just going to hold
this for about an hour now I'm just
kidding
I
right that is the area that it shows on
x-rays that my neck is not in the right
place I can feel it's uh very tight down
here so we're doing sustain pressure
again if you were doing yourself you
could actually use that tool but right
here you feel this one right here uhhuh
on the left
yeah so I want to know if that energy
that uh went from a 5 to a six yet I'm
not there yet
okay now we're going to do the tonsil SL
ear cuz I haven't done that one
yet so this is right at the
top right
there and tell me what
what happens with this
one strange feeling just went all the
way down my throat
neat um how about your
energy my head hurts right where your
hand is there's a right hand like a
headache there's a lot of tension there
right here I'm just going to do a little
stretching right here it feels like
you're you're neck have you ever fell in
your
tailbone yes when you fall in the
tailbone the energy gets stuck up here
and it makes it very tight and that's
what it feels like to me so I have to
loosen it up because
um okay yeah now it's looser good this
going to make me taller that's the main
goal because I've lost I was surprised
she measured me and I've lost another
like inch from what I was wow she
measured 5'6 I us to be 5'8 wow
okay what's the energy now it's going up
a little bit good is it a six now not
okay 5.5 might be a 5 okay good we'll
take it
yeah the other thing is that if you
didn't sleep last night there will be a
point where we will Plateau mhm but
it'll help you feel relaxed so you could
sleep because what you should feel as
we're doing this is more
relaxation to your body
so because if there's no nothing left in
the bucket as far as energy we can only
go so far
mhm but since she's had a lot of ear
sinus
throat um like this is very very
important to work on all these points
right through
here I feel it loosening up I feel like
you're stretching my spine so that my
head sits higher up in my body good
we're taking a lot of tension out of
your body and stress which is going to
relax all those ligaments in there but
I'm just holding like a
sustained pressure on this point right
through
here okay so now you can sit back over
here
right so I just did a tiny little bit uh
just to see how you do but you do you
feel like there's more open flows I do
good you look caler I messed up your ha
pretty good sorry um so your energy is a
little bit better yeah good it is I feel
better good so what we're going to do uh
you're here for the week so we're going
to be we're going to keep working deeper
and deeper and deeper and more and more
and more on this so to the point tonight
you're going to sleep like a baby I hope
so of course babies are all not crying
no mine was
good awesome well thank you okay thank
you you're welcome
