hey guys I'm back and I recently did a
video on why taking vitamin D can help
you lose weight today we're going to
talk about the reverse of that your fat
cells actually determine your vitamin D
levels now this is a bit complex so I'm
going to attempt to make it very simple
so hopefully I won't confuse you more
but I did put the link of the video down
below and also it'll be at the end of
this video okay so what are we talking
about we're talking about how much fat
you have on your body and your vitamin D
level so there's two things you need to
know the fatter you are the less vitamin
D you're gonna have obese people have
very low vitamin D levels when you lose
weight you actually increase your
vitamin D level okay but why why does
your vitamin D levels go up when you
lose weight in order to understand that
we have to understand a couple
additional things so there's this
relationship between fat and vitamin D
the less vitamin D you have the fatter
you're going to become and the less
vitamin D you have can increase weight
as well and we're talking about
expanding the adipocytes all right so
what's the missing piece of the puzzle
is this little guy right here which I
rarely talk about insulin or insulin
resistance right that's insulin and
insulin resistance so if you have too
much insulin over a period of time your
body becomes resistant and now insulin
is dysfunctional and your body starts
making more and more and more of it so
in other words certain functions of
insulin are not working for example your
ability to absorb glucose your ability
to absorb nutrients your ability to
lower blood sugars okay becomes a
problem however certain other functions
of insulin are not affected like
insulins
function to store fat and also prevent
fat burning so you get fatter but you're
not able to adjust the blood sugars or
absorb the nutrient or absorb the fuel
in your cells so the cells are always
hungry all the time and insulin
resistance is what's behind diabetes
type 2 also insulin causes the pre
adipocytes which is the pre fat cells to
turn into the adipocyte we
is the actual fat so what you need to
know is this insulin and in some
resistance increase this okay and it
goes the other way too the more fat you
have the more insulin resistance you're
going to have so we talked about these
two relationships we've talked about
this relationship right here but now
there's another relationship over here
with vitamin D and insulin when you take
vitamin D you actually lower insulin and
you improve insulin resistance why
because vitamin D enhances their
survival of the cells that make insulin
in the pancreas they're called beta
cells this is why it's so essential for
a diabetic or a pre-diabetic or someone
that has insulin resistance to make sure
they have enough vitamin D because the
actual transition between insulin
resistance pre-diabetes and diabetes
occurs when you get dysfunction in the
pancreas so if you have enough vitamin D
you may not get that dysfunction in the
beta cells the cells that produce
insulin and you may not develop a
full-blown diabetic State so in summary
the reason why your fat cells determine
your vitamin D levels really has to do
with this relationship right here the
more fat you have the more insulin you
have more insulin resistance you have
when you lose weight and you have less
fat in your body you're going to have
less insulin lessons and resistance and
you're gonna have more vitamin D I may
have completely and utterly confused or
even more hopefully I didn't but check
out this other video on the screen to
show you the relationship between taking
vitamin D and losing weight thanks for
watching
