hey Dr Burke here I want to share with
you an exciting new seminar that I'm
going to be doing October 3rd called
acupressure for body types acupressure
is not acupuncture there's no needles
involved it's using manual therapy to
get certain parts of your body to work
better so yes you have nutrition you
have Diet you have exercise but this
takes it to the next level there are
four main parts that we're going to
cover the first one is how to use
acupressure to maximum Max maximize
stress extraction from your body there
are certain parts of your body that are
holding the majority of stress and you
could get an hour of
massage compared with a couple minutes
of this and have the equivalent stress
extraction because most of the stress in
your body is located in certain parts so
we're going to show you where they are
and what to do to extract that to
maximize uh Delta wave sleep because
it's in the Sleep where you burn the fat
it's where the sleep is where you
rejuven
so if you're not sleeping it's because
certain parts of your body are stuck on
and they won't turn off so we're going
to show you how to do that with this one
um this is all about just you know
making you feel less stressed and also
getting you to sleep number two gland
balancing you have certain endocrine
glands in the body you have the pancreas
you have the thyroid you have the
adrenal you have the ovary um and
there's other glands too well you can
use acupressure to influence these
glands in a big way why because these
glands are many organs that release that
send hormones into the system and
retrieve hormones so they're part of the
communication system called the
endocrine system so when you use manual
therapy or acupressure on the gland
system you increase the communication
lines within that system so it's very
very very powerful I don't think um
people realize that these glands can be
rejuvenated but they can so we're going
to teach you how to apply to the gland
now if you had a heavy let's just take
for example if you had a heavy period or
a crampy cycle um and hopefully at the
seminar there'll be several people there
I can demonstrate this if not I'll have
other videos to demonstrate it but
within minutes you can take that person
and pull them out of that discomfort or
let's say someone has a hot flash you
can apply it to that or in a stress
State you can apply to that and part of
this will also help this as well okay
next one is instant pain relief this is
a technique that I developed over 25
years of just um trial and error working
on tens of thousands of people we're
going to show you how to apply this as
well so if you or a family member has
this have some chronic pain or what's
called systemic pain which is pain all
over it's called fibromyalgia um I'm
going to show you what to do to get rid
of it instantly the key is if the
problem doesn't resolve right away then
you don't have the right problem you
have to I'm going to show you the system
of finding out where the cause is so you
can create an effect on the effect and
uh most people they treat the symptom we
want to get to the root cause so we're
going to show you how to do this in a
very simple way and uh we'll do lots of
demonstration like a lot of the pain
that people have is not coming from
where they have the pain it's being
referred from somewhere else we're going
to teach you that system in detail and
it's a great way to um help people okay
so now we have the last one which is
body symmetry if you analyze a body um
most people um have a front and back
side to side they are so um not
symmetrical they're so out of balance
you have certain parts of your body that
are too tight other parts of the body
too loose like the hamstring the back
muscle the neck so this is all about
balancing all the muscles and all of the
joints in the body very quickly so you
can actually be very symmetrical
and again this pulls stress out of the
body so if you're interested in helping
others if your purpose is to help others
this is a powerful tool to be able to
learn and apply to your friends and
family the only thing that I ask is once
we teach you this is that you don't
teach it to other people you can apply
it to yourself and family members or
friends but I don't want anyone teaching
this unless they're certified as a
practitioner okay so for more
information click below I hope to see
you at the seminar all
