hey guys Dr Berg here and I'm going to
talk about vitamin D3 couple points you
never want to take vitamin D2 or any
other forms you want to have D3 that's
the natural version and my product I I
actually put it in a
10,000 IUS that's international units
and some people kind of freak out like
oh my gosh that's a lot 10,000
international units right but really um
they changed the values from milligrams
to iuse and so this is like 1 milligram
it's not that much so you don't have to
worry about it um at all in fact
sometimes the doctors will give you
50,000 milligrams once a week to get
your vitamin D levels up well there's
three causes of vitamin D level problems
number one lack of sun number two
adrenal stress and number three um no
gallbladder or digestive problems
because this is a fat vitamin that you
can't absorb because the liver and the
gallbladder is not functioning to absorb
it but the purpose of this vitamin is to
absorb calcium from your small intestine
by a factor of 20x so it improves
absorption of the intestine by 20 times
so if you didn't have this calcium
wouldn't really absorb as well but again
because this a vitamin never works on
its own it always works with other
vitamins I have to just bring up this K2
with it because vitamin D3 and K2 work
together to transport the absorption
process of calcium and then the
transportation out of the arteries if
you take too much of D3 you can end up
with too much calcium in the arteries so
we don't want to do that but D3 by
itself has very specific things it helps
bone pain it helps lower blood pressure
it helps with mood it's wonderful for
asthma especially for kids but again I'm
not telling you this cures anything I'm
just telling you that this supports a
healthy immune system healthy bones um
healthy cardiovascular and healthy mood
that's my disclaimer because sometimes
people say oh yeah Dr bur says he can
cure me with his Vitamin no I never said
that um so that's some functions of D3
um yes we're not exposed to the sun
especially in the winter so I like to
take this definitely in the winter but
if you get enough Sun let's say you get
at least 15 minutes of sun you do not
have to take this okay um and some some
situations especially if there's a more
of a calcium clogging stiffness issue uh
it's totally okay to take four of this
and four of this in the morning and I
recommend this in the morning take it
with breakfast um and even in worse
situations you can take up to you know
seven of these and seven of these if you
really want to create some changes
there's not going to be a problem with
that but again the only only thing is
that if if you don't have a gallbladder
you might want to add the gallbladder
formula because without bile it's hard
to absorb these so that's the only point
on that so I just want to kind of give
you a little information of like when to
take it how much to take and why it's
10,000 I use taking like 2,000 is not
really good a lot of women
postmenopausal are taking like 2,000 and
they're taking
calcium well the problem is if you don't
take the K2 you're going to end up with
uh calcium problems cuz that calcium is
not going to trans be transported into
the bone so women really need this big
time especially for bone health and to
prevent cardiovascular issues and then
even worse if you're not taking any
vitamin D and you're just taking calcium
that's a really bad idea because calcium
needs these fat sub vitamins to
transport it or else you're just going
to take calcium it's going to plug
everything up you're going to become a
stone and on top of that one step worse
One Step uh off the cliff would be
taking a calcium carbonate that's in
Centum silver it's in a lot of other
products but it's that's like taking
Limestone you're you'd be better off
chewing on the cement out there so
always take like a citrate or a calcium
lactate okay hope this helped I will see
you in the next video
