there's so many videos about removing
tonsil stones but I haven't seen any
video on how to correct the deeper
underlying cause of a tonsil Stone
because a tonsil stone is really a
symptom of something else and I totally
understand that tonsil stones can be
pretty bad because they give you chronic
kosis like really bad breath apparently
the microbes that are involved produce
what's called volatile sulfur
compounds and this is like a sulfur gas
kind of like rotten eggs which is also
involved in the smell of like a swamp or
a sewage and these microbes are making
this gas in the back of your throat so
it can be pretty devastating and the gas
is called hydrogen sulfide and so what
you have is you have these microbes in
these little tiny indentations in the
back of your tonsils that are basically
creating pus and mucus and eventually it
turns into this calcium little Stone so
let's first just kind of cover what is a
tonsil well you actually have four
different sets of tonsil
you have tonsils a little bit higher up
in the back of the nasal area which you
can't really see and then you have the
one that you can see called the Palatine
tonsils and the word Palatine is from
the Palatine bone because it's the
posterior part or the back part of your
throat so basically what a tonsil it is
it's a it's kind of like a lymphatic
tissue that acts as the first line of
defense against pathogens so the tonsils
are there to pick up information from
these pathogens and send it to the rest
of the immune system it's kind of like
uh okay body we have the pathogens in
the house we have to do something about
it start turning up the immune system so
they're kind of like the guard at the
front door to protect against uh
pathogens going into the lung as well as
in the digestive system and a lot of
times people have their tonsils removed
right problem over well when you remove
the first line of defense there could be
some complications possibly not always
but they have found increased risk of
lower respiratory tract infections
infections of the lung increased risk of
Hodgkins lymphoma and also an
enhancement in susceptibility to
developing certain types of autoimmune
conditions probably because most of the
autoimmune conditions originate in the
gut and so then it invades it bypasses
immigration now as far as the pathogens
that this tonsil is exposed to they've
calculated that if you look at the
difference between viruses and bacteria
the viruses are roughly about between 50
and
80% okay of tonsil infections and the
bacteria is only between 5 and 177% and
also remember that antibotics only work
on bacterial infections so if you're
automatically taking antibiotic it's
going to be hit or miss because if it's
a viral thing it's not going to do
anything the Epstein bar virus is
notoriously known to infect the tonsils
but here's the big picture of the
tonsils you need to be able to stimulate
and train your immune system to become
stronger and so we're born with an
innate immune system from our mother but
we develop What's called the acquired
immune system through training being
exposed to certain pathogens so when
they do studies on mice that are germ
free and don't have this training system
you know it just they don't develop
certain parts of the immune system later
in life and that can weaken the immune
system and the reason I'm bringing this
up because sometimes when you have kids
and they have so in tonsils you might
immediately start giving them some type
of anti-inflammatory ibuprofen or
something to get rid of the inflammation
or the symptom when in fact uh it may be
a good idea just to let them go through
the infection to develop this acquired
immunity this is interesting uh and I'm
going to put the research Down Below in
the description I found something
fascinating in relationship to vitamin D
deficiencies there's a significant
association between low vitamin D and an
inflamed tonsil as in tonsillitis I did
find another study that showed a zinc
deficiency can also create an inflamed
tonsil as well as an iron deficiency and
we do know that zinc and vitamin D and
also iron influence the immune system
and vitamin D is like seriously powerful
in helping create antimic microbial
effects within your immune system I
found another interesting paper and one
very specific thing about that paper
that kind of stood out one of the risk
factors of having tonsil problems is
lack of sun exposure ding ding ding
vitamin D there's more incidents of
inflamed tonsils during the winter
versus the summer here's the problem
it's very difficult to get enough
vitamin D from our diet and many times
if you're thinking about kids in tonsil
problems and large tonsil issues first
of all they don't get out in the sun as
much and many times they don't consume
salmon CER oil things like that and if
they're drinking soda with high
phosphates that alone can deplete the
vitamin D the underlying predisposing
Factor really is vitamin D and probably
throw some zinc in there too and if you
have small children you can even get the
liquid vitamin D as well now another
point I want to bring up when I was in
practice I would have kids come in all
the time with these huge tonsils and
that affects the breathing and it
creates snoring and back then I didn't
really know about vitamin D but what I
did do which was successful is get them
off milk because many times they had a
milk allergy and they didn't know it and
it could just automatically create
enlargement or inflammation of your
tonsils now as far as the amount of
vitamin D as far as a maintenance dose I
would recommend 10,000 IUS if you're
trying to therapeutically correct
something I would increase it to 20
maybe 30,000 IUS but also make sure you
take uh vitamin K2 especially since um
calcium is involved and one of the
points about calcium is vitamin K2
removes the calcium from the soft
tissues not just the arteries and the
joints so for every 10,000 I use of
vitamin D3 you want a 100 micrograms of
vitamin K2 that would be a good ratio
now since we're on the topic of tonsils
I have another video on this which has
been very popular if you haven't seen
this one check it out I put it up right
here
