one of the most powerful
antimicrobial herbs on the planet is
oregano it it has incredible properties
for the immune system it's antimicrobial
antibacterial anti- fungal anti- candida
and by the way candida um lives on sugar
it also lives on estrogen so if you're
taking birth control pills that's why a
lot of women get candida if they take
too much um antiviral and anti parasites
and anti mold so chronic helosis or
really bad breath is a fungus and mold
problem chronic sinus problems year
round is a mold fungus problem that
lives up in through here so even upper
respiratory problems could be affected
by the mold or the fungus and oil of
oregano is the absolute best remedy for
that um also if you have white tongue
like skin issues like skin rashes
psoriasis like weird stuff on the skin
um also if you're
itchy um also if you have failed
antibiotics so if your body is resistant
to antibiotics this is where this comes
into play It's like a real inexpensive
remedy you should keep around the house
take it when you get sick but even if
you have like a chronic problem take it
right now and it can really purify the
system and it doesn't kill any good
cells it just kills the bad cells I
would suggest getting a try to find a
high higher quality one in a capsule or
in a pearl uh if you get it in oil it's
good for topical things like Tona fungus
but I recommend taking orally so it gets
like the whole systemic part of the body
but get something like a wild oregano
and uh just take the dosage on the um
recommended uh instructions and go ahead
and put your comments below and let me
know how it works for you I'll see you
in the next video
