check this out 26% of teens have
pre-diabetes or diabetes that's one out
of four Wow is that yeah it's the worst
in the world it seems ridiculous
especially because with social media and
the internet people are so much more
educated I would think on food and we
have all these you know organic is
coming up and all these alternatives and
things like that that the situation
would be worse
is it worse or is it it's it's really
bad in fact this in the United States
has the most high fructose corn syrup of
any place in the world to which we'll
come back to that don't let me forget so
we're looking at this trigger and this
is a sugar cube okay one and a half of
these equal one teaspoon okay here cubes
so a Snickers bar for example has ten
point eight cubes okay this is a this is
snicker bars an average a person per day
consumes about thirty to thirty one
teaspoons of sugar a day now this is it
takes two like one and a half to equal
one teaspoon so that's yeah a little
over two teaspoons yeah yeah this is
right here right so we're chillin with a
tremendous amount of sugar going in our
bodies 30 of those good night so let's
just take this thing like this
don't let me so did you realize that an
average American consumes all of this
every two weeks no yeah that's crazy
this is about 400 teaspoons in weeks so
where are they getting that if they're
not eating donuts and lollipops well
it's it's liquid candy its soda its
juice it's in all the hidden sugars like
bread pasta cereal crackers biscuits
waffles pancakes muffins juice like I
said right that's enough
I'm just demoing just playing
so incredible so let's just take a look
at it this is only this is this is only
like a little more than 10 teaspoons
maybe 12 teaspoons so every day the
average American has three times that
yeah that's a lot of sugar it's
incredible
yeah coca-cola has 13 cubes okay Red
Bull is 11 sprite right must be
healthier 13 cubes a day
I mean per per container Mountain Dew is
18 cubes Wow one 12-ounce can now lucky
tribes have you ever had that cereal
because I grew up on Lucky Charms
and what were the other ones Lucky
Charms and more puffs no the ones with
the marshmallows I don't know all the my
boo count yeah all those Lucky Charms is
14 cubes of sugar okay now after serving
per container so you have to actually
multiply hundreds every box which is
probably about 15 16 gatorade 32 ounce
the Gator is 22 of these cubes Gatorade
its sugar water so wouldn't so Gatorade
is supposed to be a half drink or a
fitness a fitness drink right this whole
concept of you're burning up your sugar
so you have to put it back it's just
totally crazy but I thought drinks like
that fitness drinks were to rehydrate
you well they have throw a little salt a
little potassium in and that's that's
their electrolytes they don't have all
the left lights you have like there's no
hardly any potassium there's no magnet
magnesium so don't get me started
so now juice let me just take juice like
grape juice orange juice that's supposed
to be healthy right right natural yeah
well it's basically we have a little
more than one cube per ounce
okay sugar so basically this isn't
everything so if you say you have a
glass of juice for breakfast
you're getting that yeah and then you
have a soda at lunch maybe you have
several sodas a day but then what about
things like how do you factor in
condiments and ketchup here's what you
do when you read labels the first thing
you want to look at is the first
ingredient that's the majority of the
product so if it says high fructose corn
syrup you know you're getting the
majority of it I purchase corn syrup the
second thing you look at Karen yeah is
the sugar grams all right how many grams
of sugar so it might see like ice cream
for example you might see thirty grams
of sugar then you look at the serving
size serving size is like three-fourths
of a cup or half of a cup then used to
multiply how many serving size in that
container
so in a pint there's four serving size
times the total so it's actually you
know it's not like and who needs a
serving size of anything really I mean I
almost I want to buy a box of cereal so
we can just see how much is a serving
size it's probably like three quarters
of a cup or something I mean that's a
really little amount and people usually
just fill a bowl same with ice cream
right so you might be having four
serving sizes in one sitting
oh let's take salad dressings like you
have massive nut and low-fat salad
dressings you have massive sugar per
teaspoon so if you calculate it out it's
like the whole thing is just like
sugared water so you really gotta read
the labels and just make sure that sugar
gram is that close to zero as possible
yeah well it's so easy to make salad
dressing you don't have to you don't
have to buy salad dressing it's so easy
to make salad dressing but if you're
going to you have to really look at the
sugars and you know one of the things
that I was shopping for a couple of
weeks ago we're bullion cubes and I
sugar in that couldn't believe well
there's actually a lot of
crap inside of a bouillon cube I thought
it was just you know dried broth I just
said that's it I just started making my
own broth when I needed it we were
recently at a wedding and we right
across the street we go to this little
store it's like a little shopping store
right mm-hmm and we were just not
deserving all the products in there like
that was that was mind-blowing just to
look from the viewpoint of every single
thing and sugar in it I mean way more
than I thought I tried to find something
with that sugar so what does that tell
us it tells us that there's not a lot of
awareness out there with sugar or sugar
is getting added for whatever reason to
everything I mean you can't buy brown
mustard without sugar
why mustard it's mustard yeah I know
mustard they put sugar in meat that's
hidden as like dextrose or maltose crazy
static sugar so go to any like well any
place in the freezer section and I
challenge you to find the process I'm
talking about desserts pot pie and
pinatas pot stickers I mean anything I
think you know I look and I go oh here's
a nice wild-caught fish with a pecan
parmesan the crust it oh this is perfect
sugar it's incredible sugar let's take a
french fries you ever got a McDonald's
before lately no they basically we take
this potato which is a high glycemic
index and then they don't just fry it
they coat it with sugar dextrose right
so if you combine that amount of sugar
with that starch and then it's
deep-fried in corn oil or soy oil which
is GML you have an interesting product
amazing it's gonna spike your insulin so
much and what do people eat with french
fries catch
I eat I use manage people other people
other people catch up and I'm sure it's
got something with sugar I don't know
well the point is they have a hamburger
fries right and do they drink something
to do with that unsweetened iced tea it
is the most deadly combination you've
got other people soda a soda with a
burger with the fries I mean that's like
a massive insulin spike on steroids
people are doing it I used to do it yeah
well also it's like msg I mean there's a
lot of different names for sugar and
people don't always know what to look
for MSG is not a set of glutamate it's a
hidden salt it's a flavor enhancer it
spikes insulin more than sugar I didn't
know that yeah and it's hidden as
modified food starch and many other
names actually right yeah tried a lot of
other try to find try to find a food
that's processed it doesn't have
modified food starch it's in you didn't
caught his cheese unless it's organic so
what's happening our bodies now is it's
rejecting sugar and to do that there's a
mechanism a defense mechanism that we've
set out in the body and that is called
insulin resistance but it don't we want
the body to resist sugar we do that's a
survival mechanism but what we want to
do is not get that sugar but if we keep
giving it sugar a body's gonna say oh
really
we're gonna shut it down so it starts to
develop earplugs in the receptors for
insulin so we start blocking the sugar
and insulin to the point where now the
body says oh we can't do with this so it
starts making more and more insulin try
to create the effect that's what's
happening and insulin resistance is a
pre-diabetes situation
okay so eventually a person becomes a
diabetic I mean it's like one 103 adults
1 or 4 kids will be a diabetic that's
crazy
yeah that's crazy so now what's gonna
happen once you're diabetic it's gonna
affect four main cells in the body
I can it take take a guess we're getting
technical here oh yeah four cells yeah
like great brain cell liver cell okay
you're getting close the retina I was
actually I was gonna say that next yeah
the retina and that's why a diabetic
goes blind eventually oh yeah retina the
next cell effects is the nerves
specifically the peripheral nerves which
is the fingertips and the toes and the
bottom of the feet
that's why diabetic they have numbness
tingling and burning mm-hmm guess what
happens after that the nerves are dying
you get something called gangrene okay
let's literally the rotting of your your
toes and then the feet you have to chop
that off oh yeah these are just the
effects of people mystic we're trying to
increase the awareness right I know
those are two cells okay the next cell
is the inner lining on the artery okay
and don't feel yourself that endothelial
cells yeah it creates inflammation and
literally holes on those cells so that's
when the cholesterol comes in the
calcium comes in and it starts building
the clot heart attack stroke as a side
effect of the diabetes okay sugar okay
we've got three right OH Gretna
peripheral nurse heart or arteries and
next one is the kidney cell I was gonna
say that no your I was actually gonna
say that I would have I would have
gotten one right I picked that up so I
mean the long-term effects of diabetes
is you're on kidney dialysis I mean it's
pretty bad you got to go to the center
and get your kidneys filter I think it's
every day or every other day or
something like that but it's terrible
it's just like you're constantly it's
painful and there is some miserable
thing okay so that's a horrible life
yeah that is a horrible life in a
horrible future and how many kids
one out of every four child and it's
raising two okay answer getting worse
over time so okay so I get it that's the
good news that is the bad news now
here's the thing is if it's it's not you
know environmental it's got to do with
what people put into their bodies that's
totally controllable so this is where
you come in right so so the reason I'm
not ready recommending everyone good at
the American Diabetes Association
website because if you look at their
website they're allowing people to have
a lot more sugar than they should have
so they're not there in our opinion
right that's our opinion because the
link between so-called science and
diabetes they still don't know what
caused it
it's obvious to us but of course there's
a lot of funding for these institutions
so they can't come out and really say it
but the point is that you the consumer
can start controlling the amount of
sugar that goes in your body and we see
it in all these testimonials and all
these Skype testimonials and videos
we're not claiming it we're just
reporting what people are telling us
these are the conditions I had I did
intermittent fasting I did ketogenic
diet and I got rid of all the sugar and
now these are my body statistics you
know especially for belly fat I mean the
the short-term symptoms of insulin
resistance is you get tired after you
eat you have to take a nap that was me
right always now secondly is you get
craving for carbs okay that's a big one
you have urination problems at night
you're getting up urinating you have
brain fog vision problems okay that's
the short-term effects long-term effects
belly fat stroke fatty liver Alzheimer's
dementia man other than that you're
perfectly fine
but more terrible I wanted to bring up
was I had a black blood sugar problem
and I just wanted to have Karen you did
I not have a blood sugar problem or did
I have a picture think you've clearly
stated you already did but yes you did
in my 20s yes it was so bad I had to
come home take a nap the inside the eyes
are all like they felt like sand a
bloodshot I mean I went out for years
hmm I was exhausted yeah I don't know
what it was we tried everything I was
doing cleanses your candles what a detox
is nothing working I'd still have a
photo of him with this ear Kendall
actually they pulled out I could
probably I could probably make some
money off of that you probably couldn't
really get it's the next trend but the
other thing too is uh what about the
juice I was doing juiced I was doing ice
cream and you sing also purchase you did
a lot of juicing we tried everything
remember I mean certain diets worked for
certain people
we have strong opinion on things
obviously because it's what's being
forwarded on our Channel
but remember when we were just eating
vegetables okay now I don't know some
people love this I'm gonna say I don't
want to upset anybody in any way a lot
of people feel great eating vegetables
we did this and I was bruising I don't
even know what I was such I was bruising
my hair was falling out he was feeling
horrible certain people need animal
protein yeah we definitely needed animal
protein
yeah well we would be I was it was so
bad everywhere we would go I would I was
in San Diego driving down the street and
I said head Karen it says a yellow
building says the health house so Micah
members that house like let's go maybe
they can help me that was the opposite
these people were the opposite it was
like raw milk and meat right so we know
we weren't feeling great so we said okay
we'll try this so that had its own you
that had its own things but we
immediately felt better every health
food store we go in there come out with
another remedy I was trying everything
was I'm not trying and I think when we
were doing the vegetable thing it wasn't
just that we were eating vegetables real
a lot of pasta at the time and I think
that probably was our big issue with
feeling so crappy it wasn't that we were
having great big salads and getting very
creative we're doing a lot of beans and
a lot of pasta and a lot of rice and a
lot of those things
arthritis my fingers down my spine I
mean that's really what drove me to
research health and then become almost
obsessed about it just teaching it
learning it and I've been studying it a
little bit here and there kind of
dabbling in it ever since completely
completely obsessed but hey we're the
beneficiaries of that that's right so do
it right so I'm live so I'm like I don't
read fiction or nonfiction basically
what do I read greatness physiology for
fun all things about the the cell of the
mitochondria the latest hot novel on
mitochondria it's fascinating stuff
someone I'm glad that you are that
interested essential I know I'm glad is
fascinating the affects of this and the
mitochondria and by the way since you
brought that up there's something very
interesting about you can't even have
insulin resistance unless the
mitochondria which is Energy Factory in
the cell becomes dysfunctional so in
other words it's like a pre thing that
happens with the mitochondria if you can
keep your mitochondria strong then you
can prevent insulin resistance I'm gonna
make a t-shirt like that we should have
mitochondria mitochondria that's strong
right by mitochondria fist but you can't
ask me how to how do you do how do you
do that that's a good question oh
we'll cover the ha no I'll tell you know
it's it's vitamin b1 b1 is protective
against diabetes and insulin resistance
but sugar depletes b1 so if you were to
take like the nutritional yeast you can
actually improve blood sugars and
protect yourself against it guess how
you get a b1 deficiency eating too much
sugar and refined grains right Reds
cereal crackers do yours things waffles
pancakes muffins Donuts don't know it
depletes b1 so that's how you're getting
a depletion and then you set yourself up
for getting to complications of diabetes
griffith neuropathy vision you go blind
gangrene other than that you've totally
fine okay so I'm picking up a senior I'm
kind of you know I have all this data
I'm kind of putting it together that
sugar is slightly bad talk to them right
it's bad so you know so so this is a
little bit of where I come in because
okay I would like to do that you know
you know how I have these like um
partner swapping like celebrity spouse
swap kind of thing I almost want to do a
challenge and and let someone come live
in our house in my shoes for for a week
or two and I know that's really mean we
used to call him that just because it
got to be sort of like what can we eat
they probably get skinny pretty fast
yeah but but the point is like not
people don't know how to function in
life about that so really I mean there
are a lot of ways that you can eat but
definitely looking at the sugar in
ingredients is one thing there are a lot
of alternative sweeteners out there that
you can start to play with experiment
with there are gobs I mean we put
recipes out but there's gobs and gobs of
recipes on the internet and cookbooks
filled with recipes on ideas of food
that you can eat that don't have sugar
in them that's right so this is starts
with awareness understanding what sugar
does what it is
and making you aware of what you're
putting your body without even knowing
it mm-hmm
so again every two weeks one of these so
you're gonna educate your kids yeah so
that's really important the whole family
making sure their whole family's on
board and maybe the whole family isn't
gonna be on board at first because they
want to have whatever their thing is
that they're gonna have but that one
person a lot of times it's the woman of
course who leads the household right and
you get started and make the change and
then just stop buying things stop
bringing things into the house and it's
a gradient it's not gonna happen all
overnight right so you have any last
words of wisdom before we end off I am
filled with wisdom but no I I mean this
was cool and good to know about sugar
and all of the medical things the thing
that really hits me hard is to see all
these kids out there that are obese and
that are pre-diabetic I mean it's it's
really our responsibility as as parents
and as adults to to fix that so it's
such an easy thing to do and it's
unnecessary and I really think I have to
we got to do something about it we're
gonna do something locally - yeah we're
gonna start to do something should
actually tell me - I think we're gonna
film something locally and just help
these kids and parents because I know
parents don't they don't want to cause
that effect in their kids they just
don't know or they're confused or you
know they're - well I'm having a ghave
nectar now instead right or and how do
you feel about agave nectar okay since
you brought it up I brought it out do
you have another half-hour
now agave nectar is 97% fructose ok
fructose behaves differently like this
right here is cane sugar sucrose half of
this is glucose and half of is fructose
all you need to know is that the
fructose is the really really bad sugar
for your
liver because in your cells you're just
picking up glucose for it you can't pick
up fructose so everything is shunted to
the liver and your livers like freaking
out because you're doing this every two
weeks and everything is that has to be
converted over to liver fat fat around
the organs and fatty arteries and all
sorts of inflammatory conditions so
fructose is the real deadly one that's
creating if you have belly fat or a
liver roll which is underneath the
ribcage we know it's probably from
fructose and it's your livers body so so
God yes sure is just off fructose so
they say it's low glycemic yeah it might
be but it's gonna create the same
problem just a different pathway okay
okay okay on that note yeah well we'll
see you guys next time okay thanks for
coming out right
you too thanks for coming out you're
welcome
