hey Dr Berg here in this video I want to
talk about a very common problem of
bloating the question is are you fat or
you just bloated if you have that top
roll right below your rib cage right
here it's like a second roll chances are
you could just be bloated it might not
be actual fat so let's show you the
mechanism of what happens behind this
problem well we have this liver on the
right side right here it's about 3 and2
lbs the size of a football and it makes
something called old bile okay now you
might have heard of bile but bile is the
detergent that breaks down the fat the
oil the grease like it's like it's like
dishwashing liquid and it helps you
break down uh fats all fats oils peanut
butter uh nuts uh salad dressing uh fish
oils all the different oils and what it
does is it allows you to break down
those fats and use it as energy and the
fat scible vitamins so you have certain
vitamins that are fat salable and what
does that mean well that means that um
those are the vitamins that are stored
in in the tissues longer as compared to
water soluble and um they're just like
they're come from fat or Oils so um
certain vitamins you get from the oil of
a plant or a nut or an olive okay so we
have vitamin A we have vitamin E we have
vitamin F vitamin D and then is Vitamin
K these are the fat salable vitamins if
you're deficient in bile you're not
going to have the ability to digest
these vitamins despite taking them and
this is a confusion that people have
they have dry skin and they're they're
not seeing at night that's a vitamin A
deficiency and they're wondering why why
aren't um I take the vitamin but I'm not
seeing results that could also be um
sinus problems vitamin F and vitamin D
work together with calcium absorption so
they're taking all these vitamins but
they're not seeing any change with the
calcium so they have Calcium deficiency
especially in the upper back area in the
muscles and the calf and vitamin E can
show up as a tired heart you can be
actually your heart tired it's going to
pull the sternum forward you're can to
slouch forward or create a lot of
tension in your upper back and your neck
area just from the lack of vitamin E
because the vitamin E increases the
oxygen uh uh carrying capacity of the
heart muscle by
250% it will it's the underlying root of
many angina type problems of chest pain
so you have all these deficiencies but
the one I want to talk about is the
vitamin D deficiency that's the one that
it's getting a lot of hype lately
because everyone needs vitamin D and
they're taking massive amounts and
they're thinking it's good but they're
not digesting it vitamin D is a fat
cable vitamin if you don't have enough
biot you're not going to digest Vitamin
D it might show up um as a deficiency in
the body and you might take it it's just
not going in vitamin D is essential for
the immune system system it's essential
even to prevent cancer it's essential to
regulate your your immune system and
also calcium all right and if you don't
have enough of it you could have a
problem with not being able to um feel
really good through the holidays or the
seasonal you might get seasonal Blues
you might get depressed when there's not
enough sunlight all right so the
question
is why what happens when we don't have
enough bile you get bloated especially
at towards the evening and then in the
morning it goes down and then you start
eating and it starts getting bigger and
bigger what causes this bile depletion
is this hormone called cortisol cortisol
is a stress hormone activated by stress
and too much cortisol will cause the
deficiency of bile because cortisol is
essential in regulating the recycling
process of bile through the intestine so
without that recycling replenishing
function you're going to have a problem
with the deficiency of Bio over time if
you actually are have a lot of stress
over time in your life so when you don't
have enough bile you're going to start
to have digestive bloating and burping
and belching and indigestion and then
the worst thing you do is take any acids
because that just goes from bad to worse
because it just covers it up and it
doesn't help give you more bile and then
you're going to start getting
constipated and because you're not
digesting all the fats especially even
even nuts or peanut butter you're going
to crave a little sweet after
dinner and you're going to start having
blood sugar problems so if your body
can't digest fat it's going to want
sugar because it needs the quick fuel so
it's underneath a lot of Cravings to
carbohydrates so this is a very vital
thing and what I suggest people do is
take a little bio um purified bio salts
don't take the bio salts because they're
actually quite disgusting get the
purified bio salts and you take some of
that with each meal like one tablet and
it'll start to build the sink up and it
starts to it'll make people not no more
no no longer anemic because anemia is
one another problem with a bile
deficiency too so they start becoming
more fortified with their blood with
iron and they're no longer anemic so
they a lot of problems go away when you
have enough bile so you take it over a
period of time until your stool um turns
a little bit uh green or actually the
little little bit of green little um
balls in the toilet because B those a
little uh it's like a fat soluble thing
that I'm sorry it's a green a pigment
that will go through you and that means
pretty much that you have enough so you
don't want to keep taking it if you have
enough but you might need to take it for
a period of time if you just are that
deficient okay so this is how it works
long-term stress sustained stress
activates cortisol stops the recycling
of the bio or causes too much recycling
or too much deficiency now we start
getting the vitamin A deficiencies the
vitamin F deficiencies the vitamin E e d
and K started having all sorts of issues
with calcium and cramping and posture
and fatigue and even depression and
heart problems and you get bloating and
you get this big roll of fat right here
a little bit of purified B bile salts
put back in your diet each day will
solve this very massive problem that can
actually be a a longterm thing because
it's very few people know how to
diagnose it hope that helped see you in
the next video
