hi Dr Burk here we're going to answer
the question are you irritable on your
inent fasting program do you get grouchy
are you edgy do you get tired do you get
a headache so let's talk about why that
is when you initially start in a minute
fasting you're relying on your sugar
fuel initially and then you're going to
switch over to fat burning so the goal
is to get you in a state of running on
your own fat fuel which is a lot more
stable but initially before the
transition you're kind of have to adapt
to it okay uh in your liver and your
muscle you have the stored sugar and
that's stored glucose as something
called glycogen so it's a glycogen
Reserve you don't have a lot of it and
you run out of it pretty quickly so here
you are eating you spike your sugar and
then you run out of the storage sugar
and you end up with low blood sugar and
that's why you have these symptoms so
what we're trying to do is we're trying
to switch over to fat burning where now
we don't end up with this low glycogen
reserved because we don't have to rely
on the stored sugar we don't have to tap
into the stored sugar we are just
running on we're just having like a
switch turned right into your fat
Reserve like that that's the goal but
here's some here's some mistakes that a
lot of people make when they start doing
this okay
um they just have a little bit of carb a
little bit of fruit a half a banana a
little juice a little piece of chocol
chocolate ketchup little bread you know
little apple when they're trying to do
inter minute fasting that is going to
completely nullify and Destroy inent
fasting when you're doing inent fasting
you got to do this correctly as far as
what you eat at the meal that's why I
recommend the keto within a minute of
fasting so that meal or even any snacks
that you're doing which you shouldn't be
doing should not even consume even a
little bit of the wrong thing like let's
say you're eating like some dates or
popcorn now if you do that just realize
it's going to throw you off for probably
a day so I don't know if you knew
they're not but yeah it's going to a
while it's not going to be just like a
simple thing now as you start adapting
to intermittent fasting and you're
really in fat burning um your system is
going to be um when you go off the
program you you might feel it a lot more
because your body is so used to now
burning fat and then then you switch to
Sugar burning it just completely throws
you off
uh for example um when I was recently um
going to do our um manufacturing for
this uh ice cream that I'm going to
create and it was a disaster I'll tell
you another story but we go out there
and um they already have their line of
uh ice cream and of course we're going
to do ours which is zero sugar and
theirs is not zero sugar it's a lot of
sugar so um of course he wanted me to
sample some of this some of his ice
cream and I didn't want to say no now so
I I just had a little bit like the
smallest bit of sugar and I've been so
clean for so long that Sugar I just
could physically feel the sugar going up
tired need to take a nap in the car and
then it dropped down I'm like wow I'm
now I'm like hungry and I'm feeling my
blood sugar so it's so when you start
doing this and you start getting clean
you are going to feel the effects of low
blood sugar a lot more than you did
before I'm sorry about that but that's
going to happen so you don't want to
just do a little bit of Al alcohol um
chocolate bread ketchup because it's
going to throw you off for a longer
period of time than you might think um
now some of you are watching this going
well that that's impossible I can't do
it well that's fine go ahead and do it
but just don't be surprised if you have
these reactions just realize okay I
screwed up for a day I don't really care
I'm G to I'm going to start Monday
right uh also when you do this to make
this uh transition smooth in order to um
switch over faster you need more
potassium so you need those big salads
huge salads more vegetables you need
that without that it's going to be
really hard to make the transition you
also need B vitamins nutritional yeast
very important um also if you think
you're going to do like a lowfat protein
let's say you have a steak and a
vegetable that's not going to cut it why
because it's not enough fat the fat is
necessary especially in the beginning to
get you go from this meal to this meal
without the blood sugar
issue okay so if you go low fat you're
going to be like you know what I'm
hungry an hour later it's not working so
make sure that when you even you know
you do meat make sure you do the fattier
portion don't go low fat anything but
add some fat in there especially in the
beginning vital
okay next thing is that um don't try to
go into this too fast don't go right to
one meal a day or two meal a day do Tre
meal for a while gradually start pushing
the second meal in the morning closer
and closer to lunch to the point where
you can drop out but you got to do this
gradually at your own pace especially if
you had diabetes or or really bad uh
insulin resistance before this uh before
you uh
started uh and then the other thing is
uh if your sleep is off let's say you're
traveling and you have jet leg or your
stress is high both of those factors are
going to make it even more difficult so
just realize those can throw you off do
what you can to get a nap but if the
sleep's off and the stress is high that
will throw off the blood sugar so do
what you can to go for long walks and
kind of um overcompensate all right
thanks for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
