now the next body type is the O ovary
body
type this is it right here see this body
type look where they gain the weight
lower part in the hips thighs that's
estrogen dominance take a while to guess
why you don't see very many men that
look like
that they don't have ovaries very good
so the ovary will out produce too much
estrogen the estrogen makes fat around
the superficial from here down it will
also make your arms get big and the
breast get big I had one patient she was
so estrogen dominant she became a size H
I didn't even know it goes that
high I thought d double triple D was the
highest let's see AB BC D E F G H yeah
that's estrogen dominance how do you
know if you're estrogen dominant if you
look like that and also you have heavy
periods cramping p mess all that guess
what that's going to do it's going to
make a fibroid I see so many women with
fibroids it's estrogen dominance so
what's the solution cut it out I mean
they're not doing anything there are
foods that you can eat right now that
will balance estrogen it's called the
cruciferous vegetable cruciferous
vegetables are like kale broccoli
brussels sprouts cabbage all the foods
that no one eats those are very estrogen
they clean up the estrogen they balance
it and the chemicals thank goodness we
have have those Foods in our diet um if
we ever eat them but mainly people cook
the heck out of them don't they so um
estrogen dominant will cause anything
wrong with this cycle heavy periods um
headaches that time of the year uh month
uh Cravings that time of the month um
PMS how many of you know people that are
PMS okay I can see the husbands are not
like they're like
no so you have all these different
issues that happen that time of the
month if it's cyclic because the
hormones go on waves just like all these
circadian waves um fertility
infertility because estrogen you know
it's really amazing
things you have this estrogen dominant
patient and guess what they give them
birth control pills what the it's the
exact opposite thing you're going to put
them more in estrogen dominance
wow what food should they stay away from
soy why because soy is very
estrogenic and the soy that's in America
is not the same that's in other place
it's not fermented it's like it's just
soy powder it's soy protein isets what
does that do it's going to grow tumors
in your liver in your um in your um um
where else in the ovaries in the uterus
it'll grow tumors it's very tumor
producing yeah I see it all the time
there were even some men that came in
that were drinking so much soy milk they
started lactating that was enough for me
to cut it completely out of diet but
there's estrogen is very very um bad for
the liver and um it's every it's in
almost a lot it's in a lot of foods
isn't it it's genetically modified it's
almost 100% genetically modified in the
US and that means they alter the
structure so there's a lot of unknowns
right now there's no studies so um you
don't doesn't have to be on the label
too to be genetically modified they
could just stick it in there so you have
um soy it's in also in a lot of um
prepackaged Foods a lot of
diets yeah isn't that interesting the
stuff that causes estrogen is in the D
why do they use it because it's so cheap
it's so cheap I made a kale shake with
um I was going to put some protein and
the guy that was helping me develop the
formula he says oh you got to put some
soy in it's really cheap I'm like what
I'm not going to put that in there
that's going to like kill people so I I
put um
spirulina that's like a ve Vegeta uh a
vegetable um a sea vegetable so it has
some egg white organic egg white in kale
but the point is that you don't want to
do a lot of estrogen with that because
then you want to make sure if they're
doing meats and dairy that they they
have
organic hormone free this body type
craves Dairy they like ice cream cheese
yogurt it's wild they're trying to get
some hormones in there to try to balance
something cuz they're out of balance it
won't ever work though so they have a
lot of issues with that um and then when
they get to be age
52 the ovaries stop working okay but
guess what you have a backup organ
here's the ovaries the adrenals are
little triangles on top of the kidney
these start doing the work so now if the
adrenal glands are weak going in the
menopause you're going to overload those
things and now this is going to do all
the work and so now you're going to have
all sorts of problems with hot flash
flashes night sweats okay does anyone
have a hot flash
okay so hot
flashes are basically a short circuit in
the electrical system of your body
that's just kind of like it's blowing
that heat right there someone's having a
hot flash right now um so that would be
hot flashes so this body type ends up
looking like this body type after
menopause so what am I trying to tell
you I'm trying to give you a clue that
you better do something now before it's
too
late now some of you in your mind you're
thinking wow I'm a mixed body type I'm
everything
right you always have a primary too much
estrogen will block the
thyroid that's why when you get pregnant
you might end up with a thyroid problem
because the excess estrogen will block
this and then create all sorts of
problems many many borderline thyroid
cases need to take thyroid medication
when they're pregnant because of the
spike of estrogen so all these things
work
together
if the liver is bad which we're going to
get to next your thyroid can't work your
thyroid needs that liver to convert like
80% of all the activation of that
hormone curs through your liver so I had
a lady she came in she did the wrong
diet for her body type she did the high
protein diet okay she was a liver type
liver types should not do high protein
diets okay what happened she lost weight
but she also lost all of her hair well
she had two gray hairs uh she had a wig
a very nice wig um and she came in and
she says Dr we got to help me I'm like
okay what's going on she goes look at I
was like okay yes we need to we need to
work on that so I said um
what happened to you she goes I just did
this diet I lost all my hair I said
Bingo you mess with your liver and then
that blocked the
thyroid now here's the problem she was
going to she was she was going to get
married okay her husband future husband
had no clue she was completely
bald okay that's the situation wouldn't
you Rick it's like it's it's like the
honeymoon night um honey now that we're
married um surprise
you're like and then he pulls off his
toue I think there was like a movie
where you can pull off your arm and your
leg um so I worked on her I do a
technique which which works on Old
stress it's an Acu pressure not puncture
and we worked on her and uh worked on
the liver and um she got her hair back
in three weeks tiny little hair she came
back she was real happy got married
never told them went great yeah so these
hormones have dominating things
dominating power to do certain
things we when you actually age when you
go from 20s 30s 40s 50s okay hormones
change metabolism slows down would you
agree with
that you can't keep doing the same thing
with the calorie County you have to look
at the hormones in relationship to the
triggering of the fat burning hormones I
going to show you something before I get
to the next body type real
fast hormones there are three dominating
hormones that if present in small
amounts will completely block and cancel
all the fat burning hormones okay in
other words you have two things you have
things that you should avoid and you
have things that you should
do the things that you should avoid are
much much much much more important than
the things that you should do it's the
little stuff okay so let's take this one
the first one is called insulin insulin
is a hormone that regulates sugar it
decreases sugar it's triggered by Sugar
so every time you eat sugar it spikes
the insulin okay then you become a
diabetic and then sugar goes High it
doesn't go down so you have to take
insulin in the presence of just a little
tiny bit of insulin it can cancel out
and completely destroy all the good
stuff that you did so let's just make
this real let's take a cookie
80
calories you can walk that off in about
a mile but the sugar in that one cookie
will will block fat burning for
72
hours if you have a slow
metabolism like most people do a half a
glass of orange juice a glass of wine
unless Dr Oz told you to do it which I'm
just being sarcastic cuz uh I'm like
wine is alcohol it's sugar it's like
it's going to completely block you so we
got insulin right it's the little stuff
that's going to really mess you up so we
have to we have to give you substitutes
for the thing you crave I already know a
habit is almost impossible to break so
we don't want to take all the pleasure
away from you in life we want to tweak
it so there's things you can eat
brownies for example that have no sugar
no flour and you can eat those you just
have to know how to make them and we
have the recipes we give you and you can
actually have it in the refrigerator and
go for that every night or when you when
you like that number two
cortisol too much cortisol that's the
stress you're not going to lose weight
and that how do you get rid of stress
sleeping
walking I teach people to do an acute
pressure technique which basically pulls
the stress out you do it before bed and
you just get into a good sleep and it
extracts the old stress so cortisol will
block fat burning that's why you have
like when you have physical trauma and
then you have loss
loss of a loved one or a divorce
whatever that will hit the adrenal a
thousand times harder than a physical
trauma that's why you have people that
like after like this major event they're
just like they never recover that's why
you get autoimmune diseases like lupus
and mess they all come after losses okay
so then we have the last hormone that
makes you fat is called
estrogen remember all those hidden
sources of estrogen it's in the hormones
in Europe people are thinner than
Americans in America we got girls going
through the menstral cycle a lot earlier
larger
breast kids are fatter you might say
it's a lot of different things but I
think the hormones are really messing us
up um if you now do you guys realize
that turkeys are fed hormones that's why
they're bigger they're huge right they
can grow them fast if you consume the
turkey that's been injected with a
hormone is it possible that some of that
residue can get in your body yes if it
makes a turkey a Butterball
turkey is it possible to make a
butterball out of you Butterball turkey
out of
you welcome to America you're in the
wrong country at the wrong time so some
of these poor countries they're really
rich in nutrients but they come here and
they just get fat I see it all the time
they moved to America I'm like you're
doing fine until you moved here um
welcome to Virginia so we have to eat
and
understand how to fortify our hormones
okay
