hey guys someone really had a question
about fermented foods and doing keto is
it okay well let's just talk about the
different fermented foods number one
yogurt now the problem with yogurt is
it's just so high in sugar even the high
protein type yogurts or Greek yogurt it
has at least 9 to 12 grams of sugar per
serving not the entire container per
serving so it's probably about 4
servings per container but it's just too
high
kefir is roughly about the same it's
like 10 grams of sugar per serving but
there's two types of kefir you have
dairy and you have water kefir
which is too high in sugar about 6 grams
per serving size kombucha tea I did a
video on that I think it's really good
for your digestion I think it's a great
alternative for coming off of alcohol
because it relaxes you has a very small
amount of alcohol but I think like 1%
but there's some types of kombucha tea
that has more alcohol but here's the
thing a couple years ago you could find
them with 2 grams of sugar and it was
usually two serving size so you'd get
like up probably a good cup and a half
of kombucha tea two grams of sugar not
too bad if you can find that it might be
okay but now it's going up like I can't
even find one less than six sometimes
nine sometimes 10 grams of sugar so it's
too high
kimchi awesome it's a fermented cabbage
it's very spicy Korean totally fine
sauerkraut awesome
tons of vitamin C great for the
digestion way better than even taking a
probiotic but when you consume fermented
vegetables kimchi sauerkraut pickles etc
you don't need massive quantities a
small serving a few times a week is
totally going to be enough you don't
have to consume massive quantities miso
soup is a fermented soy product make
sure if you're going to do that make
sure that it's organic mizu non-gmo okay
ten pay another soy product make sure
it's organic now
GMO a lot of vegans do this but it may
increase estrogen a little bit now when
you're going into keto you always want
to make sure that your vegetables are
very high to provide all the fiber for
the microbes and the nutrients etc but
some people just do not consume enough
vegetables so this is very very
important not necessarily just for all
the nutrients but it's for the fiber to
feed the microbes so you end up
supporting the microbes in the small
intestine so you can actually maximize
your full absorption of nutrients since
90% of all the digestion occurs in the
small intestine all right thanks for
watching and I'll see you in the next
video so I want to know what you're
interested in as far as a future video
click the link down below and share some
ideas I want to hear
