I'm going to cover the 16 signs that
your body needs more nutrition now the
problem is when I teach you this
information you're probably going to
want to evaluate your friends and family
and neighbors if you do that don't
mention my name sometimes it offends
people if you're talking about certain I
don't know skin problems they have on
their nose or something like that so
we're going to dive through all 16 but
you need to kind of know first of all
why people are deficient it could be
because you're just not eating
nutrient-dense Foods or you're eating
foods that are grown on soils that don't
have the right nutrition or even like
grown in water like hydroponic you can
also be deficient if you have genetic
weaknesses or if you have low stomach
acid and you can't break down certain
things like proteins and you can't
extract minerals or let's say for
example you don't have a gallbladder or
you have a gallbladder problem you're
not going to be able to absorb vitamin A
d e and K all right here we go let's
Dive Right In number one brittle nails
this usually means low
protein and this is common in horses
because a horse will keep eating until
it gets enough protein and sometimes if
there's too much carbohydrate in the
grass like in the spring they'll end up
eating too much just because they're
trying to get enough protein in the
process to get too many carbs and this
is really common in humans we keep
eating until we get enough protein and
so if you're eating a bag of chips for
example has no protein it's very easy to
down many bags of chips because we
constantly are trying to fulfill this
protein requirement all right number two
blue Scara and what's happening is you
are iron deficient okay anemic the
whites of your eyes are starting to turn
blue okay and you're seeing this
transparent collagen which allows us to
see the Venus part of your blood which
is blue all right if you have pain in
the tip of your scapula on the right
side that means you are deficient in
bile from the gallbladder and if you're
deficient in bio you'll tend to develop
gall stones all right the next one is
tetany it's that little twitch that just
kind of Twitches underneath the left eye
or could be on the arm what that is is a
magnesium deficiency magnesium regulates
this amount of calcium and so now we
don't have the normal contraction and
relaxation going on because the lack of
magnesium accelerates the nerve impulses
so you get this like this extra
twitching thing that goes on in your
body
next one flaky scaly skin that is a
classic omega-3 deficiency it also could
mean you're consuming too much of the
Omega 6 because they both compete as in
too much soy oil or corn oil or Canola
or cotton seed oil or safflower oil or
sunflower oil instead you want to have
more uh like fish oil especially like
cod oil next one is high blood pressure
the first deficiency that I would look
at is a potassium deficiency pottassium
supports the tone of the arteries it
helps keep the arteries softened and it
also helps reduce adrenaline and reduce
the sympathetic nervous system that
flight or fight mechanism that keeps
your blood pressure high also potassium
helps regulate the fluids especially
balancing out sodium all right next one
is excessive worry okay this is a
classic B1 deficiency if you took some
B1 you would feel really calm and you
wouldn't worry as much even though
there's something to worry about your
worrying is going to be a lot less all
right next one is hyperthyroidism the
deficiency for this one is boron now if
you were going to take Boron I would
recommend you also take it with uh all
of the trace minerals at the same time
so that way you don't knock out another
Trace mineral because they all tend to
work together but boron's for a lot of
different things it's actually in borax
like laundry detergent but boron's also
important for your bone health it helps
increase magnesium absorption and it can
also reduce inflammation but it's also
good for someone who has a hyper thyroid
problem all right next one is
hypothyroidism the key Trace mineral for
this that's usually deficient is
something called selenium selenium
allows the conversion from a T4 to to
the T3 the active form of the thyroid
hormone so when you think about
Hashimoto think selenium next one is hip
clicking or joint clicking if you're
getting this excessive clicking the
deficiency in this situation is vitamin
D3 now to fix it you have to increase
your vitamin D3 to at least 20,000 iuse
or more because one really interesting
function of vitamin D3 is remodeling of
the joint pretty wild eh all right next
one is low testosterone this is a
classic zinc
deficiency zinc will increase
testosterone the way you become
deficient with zinc is eating too many
grains Okay because of the phytic acid
or too much refined sugar one of the
best foods for zinc is red meat or
shellfish or seafood all right next one
is your hair is just taking way too long
to grow what's defici in this situation
usually is manganese okay the trace
mineral called manganese again anytime
you take a trace mineral uh take it in a
blend of all of the trace minerals next
one is premature graying of your
hair this is usually a vitamin B5
deficiency now vitamin B5 is good also
for your adrenals and of course the more
support you have with the adrenals the
less stress but vitamin B5 also supports
this enzyme called catalase which can
then help clear out more of the hydrogen
peroxide which can build up in the body
next one is red gums this is a classic
vitamin C deficiency it could also be
that you're consuming too much sugar
because vitamin C and sugar compete and
one of the foods that has the most
vitamin C is raw sauerkraut next one is
feeling weak this is a sodium deficiency
you just need to consume more sea salt
and last one is you're bruising easily
okay this is a vitamin K1 deficiency now
if you want to learn more about the
different signs of nutritional
deficiencies if you haven't seen this
video it's very interesting I'll put it
up right
here
