so today I'm going to talk about the 20
signs that you have too much stress now
the first thing I want to mention is
that in practice I had a machine that
measured internally what's going on with
the autonomic nervous system
specifically the flight or fight
mechanism which is everything to do with
stress and this machine was called heart
rate variability it's a great test and
you could measure what's going on
internally with the flight ORF flight
mechanism and also the recovery uh
mechanism which is called the Paras
sympathy athetic nervous system now some
people would come in really really
stressed out and it didn't look like
they were massively stressed out on the
graph but they were definitely in the
stress mode yet other people would come
in showing massive flut fight stress yet
they were calm able to cope with stress
so I just want to point out one thing
you have your body and then you have you
you may have been endowed with a
incredible ability to tolerate stress
and you can cope with stress very well
so regardless of what's happening to
your body um you might not feel stressed
too much yet other people just have a
poor ability to handle stress so that's
a little bit of a variable that makes
things a little complex because it's not
just always about what's happening to
your adrenal glands so if you go get a
saliva test and it says that you're in
stress but you don't feel stress it just
means you yourself are able to handle
stress very well so I don't want to
invalidate that but I do want to mention
that I'm going to give you a lot of
things to help um cope with stress
better and also strengthen your body's
ability to cope with stress on that note
let's start with the brain and how
stress affects the brain and I'm talking
primarily about cortisol now our bodies
were not designed yet to handle chronic
stress acute stress yes but not chronic
stress the stress that an average person
endures right now um is just way way
over the top especially because it's
chronic stress okay people are basically
living in a stress bucket 247 so the way
that it affects the brain is that it
puts you in problem solving mode 247 you
just can't not solve problems in fact
you're fixated on certain problems and
it's very hard to UNF fixate on those
problems so you might had a great day
and you come home and you're just
constantly thinking of this one problem
over and over and over despite maybe 98%
of the things went right in your life
your attention goes to that thing that
went wrong so one of the things with the
adrenals and cortisol is that you can't
do anything else but solve problems 247
the other aspect about this is the
tolerance to stress your ability to cope
with stress as your stress starts
building and your adrenal system gets
weaker uh you just don't tolerate stress
anymore and this can be um in complete
overwhelm where you just break down and
start crying or it could be in a severe
irritability or anger when you
experience things that are too much
stress and so if you look at the adrenal
glands as a survival gland anything that
is opposite to that is going to be a
stress like anything that is illogical
like if you have people around you that
are logical in competent insane boy that
just really uh just jacks up your dream
but if you're in an environment that's
sane logical um everyone's competent
everyone's supportive uh you'll do much
better so one really common thing is
like slow drivers uh I guess that would
be considered incompetent drivers if
they're driving like two miles an hour
and and they're right ahead of you boy
that just will just raise your blood
pressure so I guess the best term would
be how much patience you have right or
don't have that's a real good index of
your adrenal function and ability to
cope with stress and another point about
the adrenals is that it puts you in a
state of um flight or fight where you're
thinking really really fast so sometimes
when you're talking to someone um that's
talking very slow that can bug you
you're already done with the
conversation you already know what
they're going to say and sometimes you
might complete your sentences which can
create some problems and also your
ability to um focus on maybe one thing
might be very difficult with adrenal
issues so you might be a little bit
dispersed uh thinking about this doing
that multitasking is what I'm talking
about uh the problem is you don't really
feel productive because you have a lot
of incomplete things and projects that
are going on which then adds more stress
all right the next point is you're not a
morning person I used to be not a
morning person in fact it took me until
like 11 o'clock in the morning before I
could wake up now I am definitely a
morning person that's the best time of
the day I'm most creative I'm most awake
that's when I'm doing videos like right
now but if there's an adrenal issue and
you have a lot of stress um the morning
is going to be difficult you're going to
have a hard time getting out of bed
you're going to even need this thing
called coffee and in large amounts you
know what's interesting about caffeine
is it doesn't necessarily boost your
energy per se it gets rid of the things
that are making you tired so it's
getting rid of this these factors that
help you sleep so if you minus those
you're just going to feel very very
awake but in the long run when you drink
too much coffee caffeine you're going to
be burning those adrenals out like
myself in fact I was drinking pots of
coffee in college um not just any coffee
like Cuban coffee so I burnt my adrenals
out early on all right next one is your
your sleep cycles are going to be not
very good you you're going to be a poor
sleeper a real um good indicator of a
spike in cortisol is at 2 o'clock or
2:30 in the middle of the night you're
very awake you're more awake then than
you are during the day during the day
you have brain fog but you're very very
awake at two o'clock that was me for
many many years now I think um the best
way to test your adrenals is with an HIV
heart rate variability test um which you
just have to find someone to do that
test because when you do a blood test
your adrenals have to be literally like
90% dysfunctional before even shows up
but you can also do a a 24-hour saliva
test it's kind of a pain in the butt
because you have to um get up to the
night and you have to uh spit into these
little tubes and then send them off for
a test but that's also a good way to
measure cortisol um the heart rate
variability test measures the flight or
fight mechanism more than it does
cortisols but just another way to to
measure your adrenals and they have a
lot of different uh new apps coming out
on your cell phone I think attachments
that you can measure heart rate
variability to give you some indication
what's going on with your uh your stress
level but um unfortunately the one that
I used um years ago they don't sell
anymore that was a real easy test to
measure your adrenals but sleep is going
to suck if you have too much stress and
then not enough sleep then makes you
more stress and also affects your blood
sugars next thing is blood sugars
themselves the adrenal hormone called
cortisol is called a
glucocorticoid it's a hormone that
releases blood sugar from your muscles
and your liver as well as turning
non-carbohydrate things like protein and
fat into sugar so when you go through
stress you're basically like eating
candy bars without eating candy bars so
that can Elevate the blood sugars and
you can even become a diabetic by having
high levels of cortisol or even taking
cortisol in the form of predis Zone
which I've seen several people turn into
diabetics just from that so with the
high blood glucose then you have high
cholesterol then you have more fat which
I'm going to get to in a second and you
also get a fatty liver all right next
point is you're going to get more
visceral fat that's fat in your belly
okay you're GNA have belly fat a sagging
belly that is high levels of cortisol
but it's really what cortisol is doing
to your insulin levels because it's
raising your blood sugar and then
following from that you have the spike
of insulin so we have a combination of
high cortisol and high insulin and you
get this belly fat at the same time your
body is dissolving or eating up it's
called a catabolic effect on your
muscles so your body is robbing your
muscles from your legs okay your thighs
and the glutamic Maximus muscle so
chronic stress puts you in this uh this
body shape of a sagging belly with stick
legs and no butt all right the next
point about excess stress would be heavy
legs when you're going up a hill or
incline or stairs and you're out of
breath easily so that's an indication
that your body can't cope with stress
because you're going up an incline okay
or if you stand up from a seated
position or lying down you get really
dizzy really fast that's another
indication that your body can't cope
with stress there's a really good um
test is called the Raglin test if you
check your blood pressure uh while
you're lying down and then when you're
standing normally your blood pressure
should go up by about six points if it
goes up by 20 points or it goes down it
kind of gives you an idea of what's
happening to the adrenals whether your
body is overreacting to stress or under
reacting and can't cope I mean some
people get up too fast and they actually
faint so that's a a severe adrenal
problem all right the next point is
about inflammation cortisol is a natural
anti-inflammatory so when you have high
levels of stress in cortisol the recept
for cortisol starts to become resistant
very similar to insulin resistance so it
doesn't work anymore so despite having
high cortisol you don't get the effects
of cortisol so we have a lack of
anti-inflammatories you get inflammation
so you have arthritis btis tentis uh you
have pain um so this is why a common
treatment for inflammation and pain is
prazone which is a synthetic version of
cortisol not good though I had over
probably 15 rounds of uh heavy steroids
from poison ivy um in my 20s and 30s and
that's really what pushed me over the
edge because it stopped working so I
cannot have any more steroids all right
the next thing about excessive stress
and adrenal overdrive is a loss of
electrolytes specifically potassium you
lose potassium with stress so that shows
up in elevated blood pressure it shows
up in heart arrhythmias it shows up in
um you can't relax because potassium is
a physiological relaxer it helps calm
you down so without potassium everything
kind of goes up with heart rate and a
lot of things and then also you get leg
cramps uh then you have your ratios of
sodium going up and your pottassium
going down and that's where you get
edema swelling in the legs this is why
it's really good for an adrenal case or
someone going through lot of stress to
consume high amounts of potassium um try
to get it from the salads large salads
or a good electrolyte but potassium
definitely affects many different things
including energy all right next thing is
salt Cravings why because the adrenals
need salt to help them function so many
times like after a stressful day you may
even crepe salt and then consume salt
and sometimes sugar because the ad the
way that what's happening to the
adrenals and you may just feel I can
breathe better I feel better I have more
energy from that salt um if you're
deficient in salt you'll feel weaker so
the more stress you experience the more
salt you need but don't forget to add
the potassium to that because we need at
least twice as much potassium is sodium
all right the next point susceptibility
to getting sick or having an infection
the adrenal gland hormone specifically
cortisol is an immune supressive hormone
so suppresses the immune system that's
why they give it to people with um
overreactive immune systems
allergies um autoimmune diseases where
there's a lot of inflammation uh they
give you prazone which is a type of
cortisol and what that's doing it's
suppressing your immune system it's
turning it off it's turning off this
overreaction same thing with the cyto
kind storm um they give people predisone
to turn off that overreaction of your
immune system well when you through a
lot of stress or a shock to the system
like a sudden loss of a loved one for
example a lot of things can happen to
your immune system it just basically
shuts off and you can develop an
autoimmune disease in fact when I was in
practice I asked people that had
autoimmune diseases when did it
start I'm not kidding like in like
probably 98% of the time maybe 99% of
the time it was after a loss of a loved
one or a major divorce so that adrenal
stress can shut down the immune system
to the point where all sorts of things
can happen like viral infections things
going haywire all right next point is
autoimmune I just mentioned that
autoimmune um diseases are connected to
stress and also gut permeability issues
okay because that's your barrier to your
to your immune system so when you have a
gut issue um you can have certain things
invade and cross through the barrier and
start creating these immune reactions on
top of stress it's just a deadly
combination all right acne why because
part of the adrenal hormones are
androgens so if you're pumping out too
many androgens you can get um an
enlarged sebaceous gland and excess oil
and have acne and not to
mention what cortisol does to insulin it
raises insulin okay and too much insulin
will then make more androgens especially
in females and that's called poly
ovarian syndrome so you can um develop
that from too many carbs or too much
stress next point I want to talk about
is asthma the medication for asthma is
Bronco cortical steroid inhalers okay um
again cortisol because cortisol is a
vasodilator it helps you breathe it
helps open up the coronary artery as
well as well as the bronchial tubes
asthma is kind of just weakness within
the adrenal glands you know one really
cool thing about um vitamin D vitamin D
is kind of a
natural uh form of cortisol without the
side effects it's really a hormone it
acts very similar to cortisol so this is
why if you have asthma or any of these
symptoms you should be taking more
vitamin D because it can definitely help
especially with asthma okay next thing
is allergies I kind of mentioned that
with the immune system if you have a lot
of allergies it could be a weakness
within the adrenal system and allergies
tend to get worse under stress and so
another indication the have stress is
allergies and I already talked about
asthma but I do want to mention one
point about that I mean think about what
happens with asthma especially when
you're with your breathing your
breathing is not calm you're constantly
trying to get air and I did a video on
this and I'm going to put it down below
if you haven't seen this you should
watch it because when you try to get too
much
oxygen um you then have an imbalance
with CO2 and I'm not going to get into
it in this video but the point is that
breathing too much will stop the
absorption of oxygen in your lungs and
this is why um people that are in panic
attacks should be breathing in a bag to
increase their CO2 not the oxygen so
then they can then breathe better but
try just think about what happens when
you um blow up a balloon or
hyperventilate you literally pass out so
watch that video If you haven't seen it
on you know it's on panic attacks and
also asthma all right sinus is
definitely a adrenal issues because
cortisol resistance affects the sinus
passages and they basically swell up
that's why sleep apnea and sinus issues
are related to high levels of cortisol
which then develops cortisol
resistance which is too much cortisol
chronically all right I already
mentioned sleep apnea
osteoporosis after menopause um what
happens during menopause is the adrenal
glands now have to back up the ovaries
that are going in retirement if there's
weaknesses within the adrenal system
going into menopause what happens is it
causes a a problem with a spike in
cortisol and that Spike can start to
affect not just hot flashes but
osteopenia and
osteoporosis because cortisol is an is a
catabolic hormone it breaks down protein
and a part of bone is protein
so we're basically thinning the bones I
remembered one dentist that came in to
see me um right during menopause now all
day long she's like hovering over people
but she found right when she went
through menopause her entire spine going
up into her neck started to collapse and
she just she lost height in her spine
her body shrank and she's just like
Hunchback right now so uh that was that
spike in cortisol it's very destructive
and so that's why it's so important to
strengthen your adrenals before you go
through menopause all right another one
is acid
reflx and
gastritis when you go through stress it
can Elevate the amount of acid in your
stomach and also one little side note
which is kind of interesting you lose um
H+ the hydrogen ion um if you know
anything about chemistry it's well it
affects the pH but you lose that with um
with a high levels of cortisol and so
when you go through more stress you lose
the H+ which really is your acids so
then you're not going to have enough
acid and then the body is going to
overcompensate by producing more acid
and also you're not going to be able to
close the valve on the top of the
stomach and that leads to gird and the
solution is to add more acid like ban
hydrochloride to the stomach not to add
in ant acid because that is going to
make things worse all right and the last
thing is gallstones um cortisol can
create a deficiency of bile and it's a
lack of bile and an excessive amount of
cholesterol that can then develop into
Stones all right so those are all the
indications that you're going through
too much stress so now what can we do
about it number one you need to force
yourself to shift your attention to
solving other problems that are more
mild so take up uh things like putting
puzzles together okay or maybe um
playing chess with someone or some type
of of craft where you're actually
working with something with your hands
and so you're kind of getting yourself
out of your head and your problems are
shifting to other things like a really
good activity would be something like
bird watching where you're just taking
your attention off all these problems
and you're focusing on something else
very very therapeutic all right next
step is to start hanging out with people
that uh support you there's two types of
people people that bring you up and
people that bring you down now even
within the YouTube channels there's
always going to be haters and if you
have a YouTube channel this can be very
very stressful and upsetting if you're
reading all these comments of people
hating you all day long but if your
adrenal glands are good and you can cope
with stress it does it's not going to
bother you but with some people it's
very very devastating now with me I have
the ability to delete those people and
block those people which is very very
nice and they don't bother me anymore
because I have so many people that
support me which I that's you right
there watching and I really really
appreciate it so it's interesting the
different channels out there I mean like
what is the goal is it to help people
provide information or is it just to I
don't know entertain people by
criticizing them I mean that doesn't
make sense to me but the point is that
you just need to start hanging out with
people that only support you and don't
hang out with anyone that doesn't
support you all right number three
vitamin B1 B1 B1 nutritional yeast has
the natural B vitamins well if you
haven't ever tried this uh vitamin B1 in
the form of nutritional yeast make sure
it's nonfortified with synthetics okay
because they put put they use petroleum
it's not a good um thing when they put
that in nutritional yeast whether it's
in tablets or a powder when you take
nutritional East within about three to
four minutes you're going to feel like
stress relief because stress depletes B1
and vitamin B1 will just take the stress
right out of your body and you'll feel
uh relaxed you'll feel less internal
tension it's dramatic and works like
nearly 100% of the time next thing that
you want to do is start eating more
foods high in potum iium because
potassium is lost with high levels of
stress you can also do a potassium
supplement but you want to make sure
that you have sufficient potassium as
well as sodium or or sea salt all right
regular exercise or physical work uh
very very important um the more physical
work you do the less stress you're going
to have you're giving a lot of oxygen
and you are getting rid of stress by
physical activity you the worst thing to
do is go through the whole day get
stressed out and right to bed I mean you
you haven't got rid of the stress you
have to actively do something to get rid
of stress because all stress is
accumulative our bodies are a bucket of
stress all right number six you need to
do a detox from the news uh the news is
extremely stressful so you don't want to
watch the news for a long time and guess
what you're going to feel much better
all right last point is a low carb diet
high carbs will make you more stress
it's a fact that when you go on low
carbs your mood's going to be elevated
so if you had anxiety before you're not
going to have anxiety you're going to
feel better if you add in of fasting as
well so I have a lot of videos on that
topic now I have another video that you
need to watch it's an actual technique
that I walk you through how to do
acupressure on different parts of your
body to extract accumulated stress it's
take me a long time to figure this out
and I'm going to teach you how to do it
to yourself and for some of these
maneuvers you might need someone else to
do it on you but it's very very awesome
check it out I put it right here
