hey guys we're do a quick video on
inflammation and what's at the core of
inflammation in the body let's first
talk about Corso
cortisol is an adrenal hormone it's a
very powerful anti-inflammatory when you
have inflammation or pain or any type of
inflammatory condition whether it's
autoimmune or whatever the remedy
medically is cortisone shots cortisone
creams prednisone okay because it's
anti-inflammatory so when you run out of
cortisol maybe because you have adrenal
stress or you're burnt out you start
developing all sorts of inflammatory
conditions you can even develop an
autoimmune condition if the cortisol is
not working okay so it's intimately
connected with adrenal problems okay so
that's number one
oh one more point about that if you have
high levels of cortisol massive stress
the receptor for cortisol can be blocked
or downgraded or become resistant so now
you have cortisol resistance so now you
have high levels of cortisol but then
you also have low levels of course all
because it's not effective anymore
because the cell is blocking it so it's
just not working so that could be
another reason why you have look Horsell
and at the same time high core so same
thing happens with insulin insulin
believe it or not is an anti
inflammatory type hormone it's
anti-inflammatory but what happens when
it goes high because the diet is wrong
too much sugar too frequent eating you
develop something called insulin
resistance
okay so high levels of insulin your body
protects from that because it's too much
so it's going to develop a resistance in
the cell and then you have low insulin
so it's the insulin deficiency that's
that's where the inflammation is coming
from it's unavailable insulin insulin is
the only hormone that lowers blood
sugars okay there's no other hormone
that does that so so many people have
high sugar and we have inflammation
because insulin is not working either
because the paint
is burnt out or you have insulin
resistance which is a very very common
condition so it's the insulin resistance
which is really causing the inflammatory
condition and also the high levels of
blood sugar they go hand in him glucose
by itself is very inflammatory so
consuming sugar you're going to get
inflammation also the fat on your body
if it's an excess will produce certain
things that can trigger insulin
resistance and cause the same problem
inflammation so if you're stiff the if
you're inflamed if you have pain and
you're consuming a lot of carbs and
eating frequently that's a big problem
so I put a little link down below of
more information that you can get to
improve the situation thanks for
watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred and fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talked about keyed out
in a minute fasting the body types in
detail I have a new stressed chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
any comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
