okay guys so I'm gonna do another
evaluation one with Jackie and then Ben
okay so we have Jackie 55 years old 5
foot 3 inches 155 pounds and she
basically wants to lose 20 more pounds
of that post-menopausal fat so let's
take a look at what she's consumed looks
like there was two meals with some
coffee the coffee was 12 ounces with two
teaspoons of half-and-half now
I have no problem with this I like to
recommend if you have sleeping problems
a smaller amount of coffee because the
more coffee the more sleeping issues
your you might have of course I'm
assuming this is grass-fed half-and-half
all right so the first meal is at 11
o'clock in the morning two eggs
cheddar cheese spinach mushroom butter 2
slices of bacon okay so far so good I
like this right here and then the second
meal at 5:00 p.m. we have 4 to 6 ounces
of chicken thin steak burger pork
coconut oil or actually cooked in
coconut oil now I'm assuming that you
didn't have all of these this is kind of
an average what you do consume so I
don't know for sure but I'm assuming
that okay so this is fine the big thing
that pops out is where are the these
things called vegetables where are those
okay we have no veggies that's what
we're missing
you have fat you have protein but very
small amounts of vegetables so that's
the thing that just kind of jumps out
and slaps me in the face okay the other
thing we you're eating at 11 o'clock and
5:00 so that's a six-hour window what
you want to work at is to start to push
this first meal forward that's what I
would do until you can get maybe you
know one o'clock that would be awesome
okay so that would be another suggestion
so the other thing I want to mention is
this thing called postmenopausal okay
what does that mean it means that you
gain weight right after menopause and
that's an activation of the adrenal
glands okay so the adrenal glands will
spike cortisol and you could easily gain
20 pounds okay so another reason why
small
Coffee to enhance your sleeping would be
a good idea the other thing that I would
look at is increasing more potassium to
help cortisol and about even b1 and
other B vitamins as well so where do we
get potassium from vegetables okay
that's gonna help her it's gonna
actually calm the nervous system down
because all this protein is gonna rev
things up and again it could actually
affect the sleep and B vitamins so you
can also do electrolyte powder and
nutritional yeast for the B vitamins I
think that would actually really help
her with this so those are the changes
for Jackie now let's switch to Ben Ben's
24 years old five foot eight a hundred
and seventy eight point five pounds
okay so Ben you didn't tell me you know
how many meals that you consumed so I'm
assuming it's one meal so I bet I don't
know but four slices of salami four
slices of pepperoni I don't know the
quality that's think that's something I
would look at then we have beef chorizo
one ounce and we have three eggs whey
protein 39 grams okay so so far were
stacking up the protein here right
that's quite a bit okay and then we got
kimchi which is a fermented product
which is really really good one ounce
it's really gonna help your digestion
then we have a half a cup of cottage
cheese one thing you got to be careful
about with cottage cheese if it's not
organic a lot of times they put MSG in
there hidden as modified food starch
crazy that's going to spike insulin
right there so make note of that then we
have kombucha mango mint two ounces if
it's a mango chances are that could be
higher amounts of sugar in that product
so that's what I would also look at
because if you're doing kombucha tea you
want actually lower amounts of sugar I
prefer like two grams okay next one is
matcha tea this is really good in
instead of coffee I like this a lot
because it has a lot of nutrition with a
little caffeine okay and then cocoa
powder two grams okay I don't have a
problem with that but again this might
have a little stimulant in it and it
could actually affect your sleep
possibly depending on what time you
consumed it maybe not then we have
sauerkraut five grams
okay another good fermented product that
will help your digestion and then your
taking a probiotic okay so I can see
right there that you're supporting your
digestive system so there could be some
weakness with that and then we have a
butter spread with olive oil four
tablespoons and it doesn't look like
you're probably trying to lose much
weight so you probably want to increase
your I mean keep your fat a little bit
higher not a problem at all okay and
then sharp cheddar one slice and then we
have wild contra shrimp
now I love the fact that you're doing
wild-caught because the farm-raised just
disgusting it's actually loaded with
arsenic and all sorts of chemicals so
definitely want to do wild-caught shrimp
the problem is going out to dinner and
ordering shrimp you don't know what
you're getting you're probably not
getting wild-caught okay oven-roasted
turkey five pounds this okay I don't
know the quality bacon four slices I
know there's no nitrates but I don't
know if it's no sugar or whatnot
okay so Ben there's a lot of protein
going on here
tremendous amount of protein I don't see
a lot of vegetables okay so we have
Jackie and Ben have a similar thing we
need to add more veggies okay you have
enough fat you have enough protein you
might want to cut down the protein now
if you have IBS okay or SIBO which is
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
this could be why you're not consuming a
lot of vegetables because that could
actually make things worse if you're
doing too much so in that case then you
might be doing okay you're just eating a
lot of protein but maybe you can have a
smaller amount of some vegetable it's
going to be fine with that by the way if
you have this overgrowth of bacteria
that's actually living in the wrong
place your small intestine you don't
want to add a lot of fiber to it and you
don't want to add probiotics why because
you have too many probiotics there in
the first place okay you want to do
intermittent fasting you want to cut
down you sugar what you're doing and you
want to have like herbal things like a
Rhaego no time garlic things like that
to act as a natural antibiotic but the
most important thing is to increase your
stomach acid so you want apple cider
vinegar beach meal a good amount
probably four tablespoons and some water
with a straw all right Ben
that's my evaluation okay and Jackie all
right guys thanks for watching so we've
been getting a lot of success stories
but I don't have your success story yet
so click the link down below and upload
you before and after I want to actually
hear about your success story I want to
see your before-and-afters and every
week we do featured success stories so
click the link down below and share your
success
