hey this is Dr Berg again in this short
video we're going to talk about calcium
and
osteoporosis uh this is the loss of bone
and there's another condition called
osteopenia which is the kind of the
precursor or the thing that happens just
before
osteoporosis um there is a myth going
around that um women get osteoporosis
because they're lacking calcium well the
the big huge uh trials that were just
done the research on uh women that take
calcium just found out that um the more
calcium they
take the more they get heart attacks
yeah especially if they're
postmenopausal and I'm going to cover
why that is um but most osteoporosis is
not a calcium problem per se it is a
problem with cortisol cortisol is a
stress hormone that is made by your
adrenal glands and if your adrenal
glands are overactive and the way they
be overactive is is especially during
menopause because the adrenals back up
the ovaries during menopause because
they make estrogen so yes estrogen can
infect osteoporosis but just the fact
that the adrenals can't make up the
difference from what the OV when the OV
was producing before so we have these
weak adrenals you go through menopause
and then you lose your bones it's not
because you're not eating enough calcium
it's because the high cortisol because
the adrenals are so tired they're
failing to back up the ovaries okay now
what happens is when you have high
cortisol it's very destructive on the
protein in the bone so you lose protein
most of your bone is protein and it's
very destructive on calcium as well so
you lose calcium you lose protein you
lose other
minerals and you lose your vitamin D
levels I would say most of the vitamin D
deficiencies in the United States uh
especially in the northern version uh
because they don't have as much sun is
adrenal High cortisol that's why we
become low low in vitamin D
okay all right so cortisol that's really
what's underneath this osteoporosis so
this comes down to stress stress will
cause high cortisol so I'm not saying
live on a go live on a desert island by
yourself I'm just saying instead of
taking
calcium start to do things to start to
improve the stress situation and change
your environment
um do things that are um less stressful
um work on your adrenals nutritionally
uh acupressure uh go for long walks
there's a lot of things you can do for
to lower
cortisol so it's rarely a calcium
problem directly uh Studies have shown
that higher calcium and I will put the
studies below so you can look them up
yourself and just to realize I'm not
making this up um high high levels of
calcium will double the ch chance of
getting a heart attack and why is that
why
because when you take calcium calcium
needs a transporter vitamin there are
two transporter vitamins one is vitamin
D which transports the calcium into the
blood but there's another vitamin called
vitamin K2 that transports calcium from
the blood all the way into the tissues
the function of vitamin K2 is to
mobilize the calcium out of the arteries
and out of the soft tissue and put it in
the
bone vitamin K2 is in a lot of the fats
it's in grass-fed butter it's in egg
yolks it's in Goose liver it's in all
the things that the doctors tell you not
to consume if you have a heart problem
right well we need K2 you can get this
um in a tablet form take 100 micro grams
and you can then also take vitamin D3
I would take 10,000 international units
together these two together with a
little fish oil maybe codiv oil so if
you took all three these
together um this would be very very
beneficial to protect your bones why
because this is going to transport it
this will help to um transport it as
well and then of course I'm not telling
you not to neglect
cortisol fix this too but these are very
good protective vitamins to help
transport calcium
the other thing is um just by lowering
cortisol your vitamin D3 will go up as
well um but this is very beneficial now
if you already have osteoporosis you're
going to need to take some calcium I do
not recommend taking calcium carbonate
if you've been taking calcium go get
your bottle right now and look at the
label make sure it's not calcium
carbonate that's Limestone you'd be
better off chewing on the cement outside
it's just rocks it's not can absorb you
need calcium citrate calcium lactate
calcium gluconate all the different
types of calcium but not carbonate but
if you have osteoporosis you might want
to add calcium to this and that would be
like your your bone uh building factors
and to prevent the heart
attacks um the last point I wanted to
make is that um is
this many people ask me like what food
can I can I get these vitamins it's very
difficult to get vitamin D from food um
unless you consume Civ oil um but you
can get it from the Sun so if you go
outside 10 minutes a day or 15 you can
get 10,000 iuse so that way it's it's
free you don't have to take it okay but
definitely the K2 that's the one that
you want to take more of to help
prevent this and again check with your
doctor if you have this I'm not telling
you that this is going to cure you or
diagnose this is the the reason why you
have osteoprosis but I'm just giving you
some extra data to present to your
doctor so you guys can figure it out but
it takes if you have ostosis it does
take a bit of time to have that be
restored it could take several years
because it's a really a major problem in
the body when you have osteoporosis your
body has been very very very um
healthwise been way way down so give it
time it's not going to come back in two
months it's going to take probably yours
but this will help you hope you enjoyed
the video I'll see you in the next one
