hi guys someone recently had a question
about proton pump inhibitors PPIs okay
so first of all I want to just give you
a little disclaimer if you're on this
medication check with your doctor before
coming off of it okay this is just meant
for education all right this these PP
eyes are basically real powerful anti
acids and they get rid of acid in the
stomach for conditions like acid reflux
GERD gastritis ulcers those types of
things this medication is the most
potent inhibitor of acid production it
can reduce stomach acid by 99 percent
that's incredible it's one of the most
widely sold drugs in the world so
obviously a lot of people have stomach
problems so it blocks the pump that
releases hydrochloric acid but it comes
with a package there's some slight minor
complications when you remove stomach
acid headache nausea and that's probably
because there's a relationship between
the stomach acid and the release of bile
and so if the bile is backing up from
the gallbladder you're going to feel
nauseous diarrhea
probably because you're not getting the
full digestion and things are undigested
it's going to go through your body
abdominal pain and gas these two
symptoms are merely the inability to
digest protein you need a real strong
asset to break down protein undigested
protein will give you gas and abdominal
pain
anxiety because you're not able to break
down the proteins into the amino acids
which turn into the neurotransmitters
like serotonin dopamine GABA that
actually elevate your mood dizziness
fatigue of course if you're not able to
absorb b12 you're going to get tired
bone fractures why because you need an
acidic stomach to absorb calcium and
other minerals and protein and collagen
also helps build bone muscle damage
again you're not going to be able to get
the full breakdown of the macronutrients
in to the micronutrients amino acids
being one of those increased risk
dementia kitten disease c-diff which
a bacterial infection in your digestive
system which usually comes after taking
antibiotics but it can also come from
taking and a powerful anti acid small
intestine bacterial overgrowth and
fungus and Candida because you need that
acidifier to kill off the unfriendly
microbes so if you don't have that
you're going to get an overgrowth of the
unfriendly bacteria if you don't have
enough stomach acid and you go to a
restaurant where they have raw fish for
example like a sushi restaurant and
there's a lot of microbes in that fish
that normally should be killed by the
stomach acid so if you don't have that
in there the chances of you getting an
infection lower in the GI tract is very
high so that's not good
increased risk of polyps colitis which
is inflammation of the colon and another
condition called hypochloride Rio which
is low of stomach acids which will give
you an e mia decrease b12 which again a
whole series of additional symptoms just
with that decrease absorption of vitamin
C B and K increased risk of infections
we talked about that overgrowth of
bacteria and increase risk of carcinoma
in your stomach that's cancer in your
stomach which kind of poses this whole
push that you see on the internet a lot
of people are going oh yeah you need to
alkalize you're gonna get cancer because
cancer only lives in an acidic
environment really well it also can live
in an alkaline environment as well
especially in your stomach what I'm
gonna recommend for a solution and I'll
put some videos down below of previous
videos that I've done for stomach acids
but simply start taking apple cider
vinegar you put two tablespoons in a
glass of water drink it with a straw
maybe put some stevia in there to make
it taste a little bit better and do that
with each meal that's a mild handling
you can also increase your stomach acid
by also taking something called patan√®
hydrochloride which is an acidifier it's
natural there's no side effects now the
only time you wouldn't want to use as
certifiers is if you had an ulcer in
which case you'd want to consume leafy
greens chlorophyll things to heal the
ulcer first but the ultimate solution
to resolving acid reflux GERD is just to
get the eating corrected to start eating
healthy and you'll find eventually that
your stomach will heal thanks for
watching hey I appreciate your attention
and if you're enjoying these videos go
ahead and subscribe and I will
definitely keep you updated on future
events live events and webinars that
we're going to do very soon
