so I have a very interesting case this
this scal um she had a real bad sleeping
problem right you've been sleeping
exhausted actually you trying to get out
of bed you were very exhausted right yes
always it was waking up in the middle of
the night and not being able to go back
to sleep until about half hour to an
hour before I had to get up that's
incredible and um also the allergies the
swelling the right knee pain uh the gain
the weight gain too that happened after
I think after you stop smoking or
something wasn't that true yes I quit
smoking for 3 months and the weight gain
started but so did all the other
symptoms now this is just a point that I
want to make up um I'm not advocating um
smoking but what I'm saying is tons of
patients they stop smoking they start
gaining weight that's because the
adrenals overreact and tump all this
cortisol so you basically you went back
on smoking right yes I did at least that
stopped the weight but then it didn't
you were stuck right I was stuck there I
couldn't lose it then so now um I worked
on you maybe two days ago I think right
yes um so I did the first treatment just
tell tell us just what how you felt
after the treatment W after the
treatment right after I was very relaxed
I
was I almost didn't even want to go back
to
work um but I'm actually kind of
rejuvenated as well and got home that
evening and did everything you know my
normal routine and went to bed and I was
asleep immediately which that never
happened before either it would always I
would lay there watching TV or staring
at the ceiling and and I've slept full
nights every night since it's great
awesome I know I remember I was working
on you just were like can I just lay
here so exhausted so nice yeah you look
very her eyes look very very calm so I
worked on
um she had a history of um tonsil
problems tonsils removed so there's a
technique to get rid of that old injury
sore throats um head-on collision um all
sorts of things so we worked on using
the acupressure stress elimination
technique and we extracted that stress
and that she was just stuck in that
stuff so um this is great so we'll get
another video uh after we're done with
you and and put you on your way sure
thanks thank you you're welcome
