so the question are you taking
testosterone would you like to know the
deeper reason why you need it in the
first place so I will ask someone why
are you taking testosterone they'll say
because it's low okay well then you ask
them why is it low and they'll say well
because I'm getting older so if that's
true then why do some men not need it
because they have normal testosterone
and some have a problem with it well
let's go a deeper now what you should
know is that the adrenals and the
testicles make testosterone the adrenals
make a small amount the testicles make
the majority the purpose of testosterone
is to develop the testes prostate to
develop muscle mass in bone strength
body hair facial hair protein synthesis
to make protein in the body not just the
muscles sperm development
deeper voice libido male characteristics
erections okay so testosterone follows
the pathways of human growth hormones so
they they're very similar in how they
work the problem is anytime you take a
hormone it inactivates the gland that
makes it that's why some of the side
effects are atrophy of the testicles
thicker blood high blood pressure
acne male pattern baldness and there's a
whole bunch of other ones so what you
need to know is the single most common
reason why people have low T is high
levels of insulin okay
and high insulin will suppress
testosterone it also suppresses human
growth hormone as well that's why men
who are diabetics had low testosterone
that's why men that have pre-diabetes
called insulin resistance have low
testosterone how do you know if you have
high insulin here are the symptoms you
have a gut okay if you have belly fat
it's coming from insulin so you know
it's too high your blood pressure is
high you have high cholesterol you have
high sugar you're pre-diabetic or a
diabetic you're on prime indication
you're tired after meals vision issues
you need glasses loss of muscle tone
despite working out urinating at night
and there's a whole bunch of other ones
okay if you possibly have high insulin
and want a solution there's a couple
things I'm going to recommend actually
two things one is the ketogenic diet
do it very healthily and in a minute
fasting I put a little course down below
to get more knowledge on how to do it
okay check it out hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in Facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick it's
like three or four videos and it's free
check it out
