so today I'm going to talk about the
effects of a toffee G on infections now
you may have heard me talk about in
other videos of Vltava G for recycling
damaged proteins but there's another
really cool thing about etapa G and it's
called xenophanes eat and that targets
pathogen so your immune system will use
this mechanism to clean up microbes that
shouldn't be there like yeast fungus
mold viruses and even Candida now it is
true that unfortunately certain viruses
especially have adapted to this and they
have ways of evading this mechanism so
you might not handle all your microbes
in your body but it can definitely
lessen the load so what is the Tov G for
those people that are new it's basically
a condition where your body starts to
eat up damaged protein and clean up
microbes it shouldn't be there and
recycle them into new amino acids and
new materials and the way that you would
trigger this state is to do fasting okay
so you'd have to fast at least 18 hours
to start seeing some really good at
ofuji etapa G is great for anti-aging
it's good for your immune system it's
good to clean up old damage proteins
that shouldn't be in your body whether
it's in your brain and your organs or
whatever and what's interesting is that
when someone's sick they naturally tend
to lose their appetite animals in the
wild when they get an infection they
stop eating and this could be the
mechanism that helps them survive so
etaf adji is an evolutionary pathway to
help survival now if you're new to my
channel I would highly recommend getting
more information to how to do
intermittent fasting correctly I put
some links down below because it has
lots of benefits that go way beyond just
losing weight now this is the thing that
I would recommend in addition to fasting
if you're dealing with some type of an
infection or some type of chronic
systemic immune weakness
whether it's autoimmune or some type of
viral infection that maybe keeps coming
back
over and over and over I would add some
antiviral and anti-american ptosis very
much maybe a few minutes if that
so garlic that could be very very
beneficial and I would take it in a
little capsule form on an empty stomach
and you can take any one of these right
here or a few of these but you have
garlic st. John's wort ginger astragalus
and oregano my favorites are oregano and
garlic and if you take these two on
empty stomach I think that would
actually really help to accelerate the
process of dealing with the infection in
addition to a fasting to stimulate a
tapa gee thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
