today we're going to talk about
a natural way to get rid of histamines
now what's a histamine a histamine is
something developed when encountered
with some type of thing that you're
allergic to
also an injury or an infection and the
symptoms are the following mucus
sneezing runny nose watery eyes red eyes
and so whether you have seasonal
allergies or some other type of
inflammatory condition it might be a
good idea to know more about how to
speed up this process and get rid of
these histamines now unfortunately
histamines are also in the food supply
too so unknowingly you could be
consuming histamines and aggravating the
condition but there are certain organs
that have enzymes to help you dismantle
and break down histamines and the first
one is called diamine oxidase we're just
going to call that Dao so this enzyme is
located in the small intestine as well
as your kidney now it's in the small
intestine because of all the histamines
you get from Foods so you need this
enzyme to help break it down but it's
also in the kidney and another enzyme
which is fairly a long chemical compound
hnmt stands for histamine n methyl
transferase not that you need to know
that but this enzyme also breaks down a
histamine and it's located in your liver
it's in your lungs and it's even in your
central nervous system and so if we look
at these histamines
the liver and kidney are probably the
most important organs the liver receives
a tremendous amount of blood flow just
like the kidneys in fact one-third of
all the blood in your entire body
travels through the liver every minute
and so anything that inhibits liver
function can be a problem so this
relates to like you know junk Foods
alcohol or even smoking can actually
kind of make things worse so the two
Central uh good remedies
for dealing with histamines would be
getting some grass-fed beef kidney
extract as well as grass-fed beef liver
extract now if you can find these in a
freeze-dried form that would be best
because you'll have the maximum amount
of these enzymes plus a lot of other
additional things that will help
detoxification I mean you have selenium
you have antioxidants you have nutrients
that will all help speed up the process
now the other remedy that I'm going to
recommend would be milk thistle so the
compound in milk thistle is called silly
Marin and that compound not only is
great in protecting the liver and other
organs from poisons like snake bites
poisonous mushrooms certain drugs that
can poison you but milk thistle has been
known to help anaphylactic shock which
is a severe allergic reaction so it's
great in any allergies
now since histamines come from a certain
immune cell called the Mast Cell milk
thistle stabilizes the membrane around
the Mast Cell decreasing histamines
directly and then avoiding the foods
high in histamine and that would be
anything fermented as in alcohol like
beer wine other alcohol beverages this
includes fermented dairy as in aged
cheeses cream cheese yogurt kefir things
like that I would also avoid fermented
vegetables like sauerkraut or kimchi
even though I usually recommend them but
if you're in a histamine reaction you
should probably avoid them other
fermented products would be like bread
vinegar that which includes apple cider
vinegar scared Meats okay I would avoid
those and then other things like Smoked
Meats and smoked fish shellfish spinach
and even chocolate all of these are high
in histamine so if you avoid these
you're going to have less of a reaction
and you can overcome this a lot faster
now if you haven't seen my other very
popular video on mucus you might want to
check that out I put it up right here
