what would actually happen if you
consumed celery juice for 7 days now
there are four things in celery juice
that are quite powerful but most of the
things that people talk about in celery
juice are not the things that are
contributing to your health okay like
first of all it's 95% water the
nutrients in celery juice are not that
High I mean it does have folate which is
B9 but that's only like 9% and then
people say oh yeah it's high in sodium
in one glass like 16 o of celery juice
you're talking about 288 Mig of sodium
that's 1/8 of what you need every single
day but what is really amazing in celery
juice there are four natural chemicals
called phyton nutrients and also there's
a book that states that celery juice is
the most powerful Medicine of our time
so let's talk about why that can
actually even be true the medical medium
talks about the benefit from the sodium
cluster crystals I really couldn't find
any data on that but I have found a lot
of data on these four phytonutrients
that I want to share with you so the
first one is a long name
3nb fide here's what this chemical does
repair after a stroke reconstruct the
microcirculation it has certain neuro
regenerative properties and it's
antioxidant
anti-inflammatory anti-apoptosis now
what is apoptosis it's basically when
the cell commits suicide when it's
damaged also it has a property of an
anti-thrombosis so it helps to prevent
clotting and then the second compound is
called AP genin and apin is one of the
most researched and studied polyphenols
it's in parsley it's in onion it's in
oranges it's in thyme it's in basil and
it's definitely in celery juice normally
in nature a plant uses a penine to
protect itself against against UV
radiation from the Sun as well as acting
as an insecticide so it's a defense
mechanism but when we consume this
compound in small amounts it creates an
epigenetic uh effect that actually can
benefit us but Apen is a good uh muscle
relaxer this is why when you consume
celery juice you you feel calm if you
have high blood pressure it tends to uh
lower the blood pressure you can sleep
better and it has anti-diabetic
properties it's even been used to help
people with amnesia which is interesting
the third compound is called cumic acid
this compound is anti-inflammatory
anti-ulcer anticlotting as well as
supporting your blood sugar it can also
help with inflammation with arthritis
then the last compound is called Campero
cerol has antiviral properties
antibacterial properties anti-fungal
properties as well as being an
anti-inflammatory in general so is
celery juice the most powerful Medicine
of our time um I don't know about that
but it's pretty awesome this is what I
recommend you do and I just got done
with this I did this for seven days I'll
probably continue it you buy celery wash
it off make sure it's organic juice 16 o
drink it in the morning an empty stomach
if you wanted to add something to it
don't add additional juices add a little
lemon to it but the main benefits come
from these four compounds there could be
other compounds that are creating all
sorts of effects but if you haven't
tried it you might want to try it I
think you might like it if you haven't
seen my other video on celery I put that
up right here check it out
