hey guys so I had another question from
someone that wanted to know does coconut
oil have high amounts of cholesterol
okay the answer is no only animal-based
foods contain cholesterol coconuts are
not animal-based food so the answer is
no next question does coconut oil have
saturated fats the answer is yes it does
okay but not cholesterol and then can
coconut oil increase LDL cholesterol yes
it can okay but it also increases HDL
and the last question is do increasing
either one of these increase your chance
of getting a heart attack or stroke
the answer is absolutely not okay
consuming coconut oil will not affect
your heart in any negative way shape or
form okay it actually will help you I
put some links down below to give you
some more data on that alright thanks
for watching so I hope you're coming to
the Quito Health Summit coming up in
October so I want to quickly comment on
what we're gonna do that's different
from other conventions okay the problem
with these other conventions is they
give you information over a load okay
it's so much data that you're basically
swimming in a sea of information we're
going to do things very differently
we're only going to cover the most
important things that make a huge
difference now there are three very
powerful strategies that we're going to
be talking about at the summit that you
will not find and any of my youtube
videos number one is on memory I'm going
to be showing you something very cool to
dramatically increase your memory in
concentration that's going to blow you
away and number two I'm going to show
you how to increase your stress
tolerance so you are completely calm all
the time alright and number three and
most importantly if you have a slow
metabolism if you've dyed it for a long
time and everything is kind of just
really slow I'm going to show you how to
get complete control over your
metabolism so you can literally turn up
the dye
as high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
