hi guys Dr Burke here here's a question
what is keto adaptation well the first
thing I want to differentiate is the
difference between ketosis versus keto
adapted okay if you just go to sleep at
night and don't eat anything through the
night and wake up you're going to then
eat breakfast and break the fast you've
been fasting and you probably were in
ketosis okay you were fat burning at
night so that's ketosis keto adapted
means that your body has developed
new cellular
Machinery new
enzymes for fat burning okay so most
people have been running on glucose and
sugar for their whole lives and now
we're going to adapt their body to it's
called ketosis which are basically
building new cellular machine we're
forcing our body to run in a different
fuel source and that takes between two
to three plus weeks and I think that
I'll have to underline this Plus
unfortun could take longer it could take
up to 6 weeks okay now some people
experience uh body changes when they're
going from here to here uh they call
them keto flu and rashes and all sorts
of other issues and those are all easily
handled and I put a link down below of
what to do if you run into fatigue or
this or that you basically need um more
minerals and B vitamins okay you need
sodium potassium and you probably need
some B vitamins nutritional yeast works
really good
and then throw that into the mix and
that should reduce those effects but
when you're going through this
transition you're losing weight but you
are going to lose weight a little more
later because you have not built up the
full capacity of fat burning enzymes yet
so when you're fully keto adapted you
could burn some serious fat where before
you couldn't so if you're discouraged
starting out just realize you haven't
been keto adapted at this Point yet okay
so how do you know if you're keto
adapted well you don't have any more
cravings for carbs at all
zero you're not hungry especially
between the meals you're very satisfied
after the meal if you eat a meal and
then you basically have to keep eating
because you're still not satisfied you
still have an insulant problem so that's
going to take some time you don't have
any headaches or don't have any blood
sugar symptoms you're not cranky if you
skip a meal
your mood is much better you don't have
the keto flu anymore you don't feel
tired or feel kind of funky you feel
really stabilized you're satisfied and
you don't need snacks you can go long
periods of time without eating that's
when we know you're in keto adaptation
so um the percentage is a 65 to 70% fat
dietary fat 15 and 18% protein and 10 to
15% carbohydrates I'm going to put a
link down with more specifics on what to
eat but I just wanted to make I wanted
to to find this keto adaptation and a
lot of people have never adapted they
just keep doing ketosis but then they're
still doing the carbs so it never really
works so to do this you have to just
commit to it and you can't cheat you
have to just stick to this for at least
two to three weeks and then it'll be
easier and then keep sticking to it okay
thanks for
watching just press it okay that's sound
crappy press this sub script why why can
I say subscribe
subscribe press hey thanks for so much
press the Subscribe button now I forgot
what to say I will see you in the next
videos subscribe to the press button and
oh yeah send you additional information
press the Subscribe button and I will
keep you updated on the future events
