[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey guys and we're going to do more
dressing now because dressings even the
organic ones you look on the market look
at the lay what does it have in it soy a
lot of soy it's GMO corn oil MSG sugar
chemicals so you really need to make
your own really simple mhm what's this
one about this one is just a classic
Italian oh yeah yeah it's got I like
this recipe because it's got chunks of
fresh red pepper and um not spicy but um
bell pepper and chopped onions and
actually the bottom you shake it up it's
really kind of chunky it's good let's
check it out let's see what it tastes
like see if it passes
inspection on arugula which is my
favorite
lettuce I ate a lot of salad so I need a
lot of
dressing he
does well you got you have it on your
teeth there I have it on my teeth don't
smile okay well
[Music]
let's
[Music]
n
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next
video
