[Music]
hey guys what do we what are what do we
have now so uh this is actually a
condiment a spice and um it's called
gasio it's actually a Japanese condiment
and it's super easy it's made with
Sesame and salt it's actually it has
vitamin T and there's only really three
things on the planet that have vitamin t
Okay so this is special then this is a
good thing sesame seeds grub worms and
termites and the grubworm and Termite
recipe is not for a few more weeks so
let's stick with with that okay good so
and I actually got a little top to my
mason jar so that you can just shake it
out and you can put this on you want
some want to try
some uh you can put this on fish on your
vegetables on your salad it's so good
it's like a toasty salty roasted sesame
toasty roasty it's toasty and roasty so
you put it on fish and you put it on
meat anything I always put it in a salad
I use a lot of it in my salad it's
really delicious it's so simple well
let's let's roll it and show them how to
make it
[Music]
the
[Music]
okay so to get the recipe click the link
below hey Charlie click the link below
below check it out
