today we have Dr Chris Kenobi he's an
opthalmologist and we are going to talk
about some fascinating information
relating to seed oils we have this trend
of Omega 6 fatty acid seed oils and it's
been trending like crazy high can you
tell us the relationship between the
trend of the consumption of seed oils
compared to Sugar because people think
that no Sugar's trending going up and
that's the culprit but I I don't think
that's true
first of all thanks for having me on
Eric
um and yes so this is the work that I've
been that been been doing for the last
uh about 13
years deeply investigating seed oil the
industrial seed oils and their
connection to O overweight obesity
diabetes and almost all this chronic
disease and this is uh what you just
mentioned I'm so glad you brought this
up first um I'm I'm looking here because
I'm going to try to give you exact data
uh on this to answer this question so
people say yes they think sugar is the
driver of all of this and I am entirely
convinced of the that the opposite is
true not that sugar is healthy it's
definitely a a nutrient deficient food
but let me get right to this data so I
don't waste anybody's time so I want to
give you the most compelling evidence
right off the bat is um so most of our
sugar consumption and everything I will
say or mention will be will come from
published evidence so most all of our
sugar consumption in the United States
which we've published and Stefan Guan
has published um the increase came
before 1922 so by 1922 we were already
at 473 calories worth of sugar and up to
1987 that barely changed it went up to
497 calories so right 24 calories
difference I think that from 1920 to 19
1922 to
1987 yeah sugar consumption was a flat
line and we'll you'll see the data if
you bring this in in this graph that
I'll send you but during that time so
we've we've looked at obesity and
obesity was 1.1% in men age 18 to 80 in
the N late 19th century that's Scott
Allen Carson's work so and then the next
data was 1960 for obesity which was 13%
13.4 basically and so we interpolate the
data between those so that's done
through Excel anyway so the n in obesity
was
2.95% in
1922 but it increased to
18.6% in 1987 so obesity increased over
sixfold while the sugar changed
virtually not at all it went up 5%
um so that's this is a 65 year period of
time so if you're going to say sugar is
the driver of this how do you account
for this because this is a 65y year
period of time in history where we know
sugar basically didn't change um now
it's gone up on either end of those
years some somewhat um we can get to
into more detail about that so let's
talk about the vegetable oil so the
vegetable oil introduced in the United
States in
1866 has climbed all the way through
2010 so went from Z to 80 grams per
person per day by
2010 um and in
1922 the the vegetable oil consumption
was 78 calories per person per day and
that increased but to 1987 to
497 calories so so just to kind of recap
that data we're talking about
you know if you if you type in with chat
GPT about seed oils it says oh yeah the
average person has about 20 grams no
it's 80 grams which is basically about
uh you know onethird of our calories
isn't it we're almost like 20 25
onethird of our calories which is about
a half of a cup no is it a third of a
cup it's it's a lot of seed off yes it
is it's not this 20 grams between 1922
and 1987 sugar went up
5% vegetable oils went up
65% obesity increased 6.3 fold or 532
per. this is a 65y year period And if
you want I could mention the evidence on
uh diabetes it's even more compelling
that the increase in diabetes during
this period do you want me to mention
that yeah because people uh I don't
think people realize the um how
a fat an oil can cause diabetes because
they're always thinking blood sugars but
right I'm sure you can tell us like
what's going on there right we can get
to that um so the evidence on Diabetes
so diabetes was um so it's incredibly
rare in 1890 this is p published by Sir
William Osler diabetes affected
0.28% of the population now it Rose all
the way to 13% of the population by 2016
that is a
4,643 fold increase in diabetes but
let's just talk about let's go back to
1922 to 1987 so we're looking at the
exact same time frame we were looking
before diabetes increased from about
0.09% in 1922 to
2.6% in 1987 it's gone up way you know a
whole lot more since then how big of
increase is this
2800% increase in diabetes a 29-fold
increase during this 65e period so
obesity went up six-fold diabetes went
up 29 fold During the 65-year period
when sugar did not change so you just th
and I've got this evidence all over many
other countries all over the world it is
everywhere I look so far I'm seeing
evidence like this where you've got
sugar um and even carbohydrates flat or
going down even and the data gets more
interesting if you look more recently
since
1999 that Sugar's a bit on the decline
while our obesity and diabetes rates
have escalated exponentially it stay
coincidence I mean when you analyze uh
data you want a trend you want to look
at comparison from one date to another
and you um it's a Smoking Gun and this
is it wow yeah
so um so basically um when someone
consumes seed oils um and of course you
know they call them vegetable oils they
even have pictures of vegetables right
so you have these wonderful vegetables
but those are not in
here and uh it's heart they actually can
put heart healthy we'll get into that
what's the mechanism causing diabetes in
a kind of a simple way how would you
explain that yeah this the very simple
simple one sentence answer is that
they're driving mitochondrial
dysfunction okay so the way that if you
know if we get to into a little bit more
detail is that the seed oils that are
rich in omega-6 fats um accumulate in
our body fat and these omega-6 fats and
omega-3 they're they're
polyunsaturated so they're they're prone
to
oxidation and so when so when these fats
they accumulate in your body fat then
they're they're PR to oxidation which
inside the body as you always say it's
very equivalent to rusting and um inside
the mitochondria which is the PowerHouse
of our
cells um there is damage to what's
called a cardiol lipin molecule which
ultimately is an
important um part of the electron
transport chain there's something that
it targets specifically in the
mitochondria um as the this fat is being
turned into energy and into you know the
storage of ATP um are you saying that um
so well first of all can can we use uh
this oil as as energy yes absolutely we
can we burn it yes okay so but in the
process because it's it is the way it is
um it's basically damages something in
our mitochondria which then doesn't
allow us to make the final produ of
energy well it's not in the process of
burning the the the omega-6's it's the
fact that they're
incorporated into these structures these
uh molecules okay and in the cardiolipin
and then they become oxidized because
they're prone to be you know they're
subject to attack by R free radicals so
do they go into the membrane yes and
then that membrane becomes leaky and
that that inner mitochondrial membrane
and it leaks the the hydrogen protons
which have to create a gradient in order
let me just unpack that a little bit
because that's a little complex so if
you take the membranes uh around uh I
have a
cell we have a membrane around the cell
it's this outer Co cutting and then on
the inside the cell where there's a
mitochondria there are these uh little
things right here and they have
membranes around them little uh San wrap
type things you know if you even
stretched out I don't know if you've
ever calculated the surface area of just
the cell membrane um if you take the
number of cells and you stretch them out
uh the surface area comes to 90 Acres
which is like what so there this huge
surface area and this is how um the the
mitochondria makes energy because it
starts to uh creates this difference
with certain things on one side versus
another kind of like a battery and then
you have voltage and this whole thing so
that membrane is essential for creating
electricity and Power to be able to
store energy so so in other words this
fat gets into that membrane and now we
kind of starts leaking and then starts
now we lose the power it's kind of like
having a car and you loosen one side of
the bolt on the frame it's like now we
don't have that stability right it's
just like flying all over the place yeah
okay great an interesting right
interesting and then I'll just mention
too that so these the accumulation of
these omega-6 fatty acids in our uh in
our bodies they um ultimately drive not
only this prooxidative environment but
it's also pro-inflammatory it's directly
toxic through what are called Advanced
lipid oxidation in products and it's
nutrient deficient you you don't get any
vitamins a d or K2 in the vegetable oils
no matter even the good ones you don't
get any vitamins a d or K2 so I always
say these are the four pillars of Hazard
put these together and you just have the
recipe for metabolic disaster and
physical degeneration so this so that so
you know back to what's driving obesity
well you know part of it is is is that
that you've disabled or cause
dysfunction in the
mitochondria and you can't burn fuel
properly and so then your energy you
know your energy uh
consumption that your energy production
in your own body goes down and at the
same time you want to eat more when you
consume the the vegetable oils um you're
probably getting trying to get more
energy because you're not making energy
absolutely to talk about the um this
mitoch condra we have um a little
assembly line of taking this food um and
you know you have the the glucose the
fats and the pro amino acids it's going
through this uh assembly line This
Factory and it's extracting energy or
electrons right from there and then
other things it's extracting but um you
know in school They Don't Really teach
you they there's like eight different
steps but they don't really tell you or
emphasize that the co-actors to allow
from one enzyme to go to the next so
those are all vitamins and minerals and
things like that so I think what you're
saying is that when you consume
something in a refined form like this
you're not going to get the nutrients so
now the body has to pull from Reserve
from creating deficiencies as you
consume this same thing with like even
if you did Sugar but you know you're
creating deficiencies as you're burning
the fuel and then when you run out now
we have a problem because now you can't
these enzymes can't work and then you
but this actually lodges into the
membranes right they it actually gets
stuck in there for exactly some time
that is such a great Point Eric
because so many people just overlooking
the fact that that um especially we're
so efficient in minerals and these
minerals as you said they're the
co-actors of all these enzymes if you
can't run these enzymes just like as you
you know you use analogy about a car
well if you know if parts of your engine
are not functioning there's going to be
you know an overall um problem with
power output and then all sorts of
things start failing and in our bodies
this is where we start gaining weight we
start becoming insulin resistant which
means that your body doesn't respond
Bond insulin then your glucose goes up
and you're just poisoning yourself with
these These are what I call chronic
metabolic biological poisons short
answer is these are poisons when uh seed
oils were first uh
introduced um into the diet I think
weren't they they I think in the book if
I remember correctly there were kind of
like what are we going to do with these
this waste product because we're they're
using for something else oh yeah let's
put it in the food supply I mean what
happened at that point yeah so um well
cotton seed oil was the first
manufactured seed oil in the United
States we didn't up up through 1865
there
wasn't uh any seed oils in the food
supply there was a fraction of a gram of
olive oil available almost no one had
access to olive oil in the United States
most some in California but anyway so so
the the the cotton seed oil was
initially um before it was in the food
supply it was used as machine oil and
lamp oil primarily then it was used as
fertilizer and then as as cattle feed
but right in there as they started using
it as fertilizer and cattle feed they
decided that they wanted to sell it as
food and Americans didn't want any part
of that because they knew it as machine
oil and lamp oil I mean it'd be like you
know giving us motor oil says food and
saying here you go eat this and they
didn't want to be part of it so
manufacturers were not deterred they
just decided to um start adulterating
well well first they um they they mixed
the seed oils the cotton seed oil with
butter to make margarine they called oo
margarine back in that day and then that
began to work so then they began to
adulterate olive oil with it and sent
huge amount I think it was 55,000
barrels of so-called olive oil to uh
Europe and the French made complaint in
1880 because they knew just by the taste
it was not olive oil and that it was
like half or something like that uh uh
vegetable oil and then eventually you
know by 1909 or in the early 1900s um
Proctor and Gamble began to produce
Crisco trans fats which is created by
bubbling hydrogen gas through this
cotton seed oil at that time in the
presence of a nickel Catalyst and so
they produced this the you know this uh
product that looked kind of like lard
and that's what the goal was so the
whole goal with these was to make money
it wasn't because they were healthy the
goal was to make money it was to
outsell butter and lard with these oils
somehow and that's what they did and
they were extremely successful and there
was a lot of money it so so we got
cotton seed oil initially and then in
1909 soybean oil enter entered the food
supply and we got all the rest so now
today we've got soybean corn canola
cotton seed rape seed grape seed
sunflower safflower rice brand Sesame
and peanut oils those are the the my
list of sort of the worst of the worst
that um now account for as of 2010
anyway 80 grams per person per day which
we talked about earlier was is uh 720
calories worth 32% of us caloric
consumption so even if you take there's
going to be a little bit of plate loss
there um so it's at least a fourth if
not a third of the American diets coming
out of these gigantic factories that
look like petroleum refineries and then
parallel to that campaign they have to
invalidate the saturated fats yes and I
think it's fascinating to me uh when you
look at any type of junk food right
whether it's this or the
Goldfish yeah or or
even used to be my favorite um if you
look at
these you know I said well well
saturated fats are junk Foods they're in
the junk no they're not I actually
looked at all these and there's very
little saturated fats it's all
unsaturated fats which is fascinating to
me because U that's kind of like a a
downplayed point that alter processed
food calories are just a tremendous
amount of um unsaturated fats and people
think oh that's must be healthier but no
it's just the yeah exactly it's just the
opposite they're very very unhealthy um
and yes all of the processed foods are
using seed oils they're you try to find
a processed food that has butter or lard
or beef Tallow in it you just will
hardly ever find any so there's I don't
know how many tens of thousands if not
maybe hundreds of thousands of processed
foods um and restaurant foods that are
all uh laced with they're just loaded
with vegetable oils so so when I um my
wife uh uh she cooked something like
shrimp and there was olives in there and
FedEd cheese and I ate it I didn't sleep
that night and next morning I'm like I
normally sleep good what's going on so I
went to see where she got those olives
and that feted cheese it was in a
container filled with uh I think it was
canola oil I'm like not even olive oil
I'm like canola I I just basically
consumed probably a half a cup of canola
oil and I'm like wow I I can my body
does not do well on that stuff yeah but
they hide it in so many different
products even in you would think there'd
be olive oil in there but there's not
and even like when you buy feta cheese
in these little glass bottles and you
like wow look at see so in other words
you have to read the labels you have to
restaurants you can't really you'd have
to ask them what what oils but you got
people need to start you know reading
labels yeah you have to be
extremely Vigilant in order to get seed
oils out of your diet so if you eat in
restaurants or you eat processed foods
it's all danger zone because they're
generally just loaded with the vegetable
oils and people are very confused that
they so many people will say well I
don't put any vegetable oils in my food
and you don't need to you can get your
80 grams a day without ever ever buying
a bottle of vegetable oil you just eat
processed foods and you eat restaurant
foods and you'll have it you'll you'll
get that much I was at the health
hacking event uh a couple weeks ago and
uh someone said let's go to this
restaurant that's pretty good and I
noticed that they emphasize they don't
use seed oil so I'm like I have to get
their business card to find out wow I'm
like you know tell people to go there
but I think what I want to do is um
start um promoting or recommending
restaurants that don't give these seed
oils because I think that would be a
completely new thing that I would love
to go to and um and you could go there
and know that everything all on the menu
is no seed oils because it's so
Insidious in our food supply this is
crazy and there's there's actually a
couple of apps or at least one I think
there's two apps now that um will'll
direct people to restaurants that do not
use seed oils and really unfortunately
Eric I don't know the name of those apps
um I'll find them and put them in the
description yeah th those are those
would be excellent for people to to find
some of those restaurants there's
precious few restaurants restaurants
that don't use seed oils but there are
there are it's they they are learning
this from
us they're getting it from people like
me and
you so I guess I I I didn't know this
but you clarified something I you know
in in the fat cell there's a lot of
saturated fat there's cholesterol I did
not know that these polyunsaturated fats
um went into the fat cells and I didn't
know that we can actually even burn them
I guess yes MH we can but with a
package with a with a price to yes yes
wow I mean ultimately with these fats
from the Omega 6 and and omega3 they're
they they're meant to be in very
specific places in our body but if you
just eat them in overload which we do
when we're consuming seed oils um they
do as I mentioned they accumulate in our
body fat and in our cell membranes and
in mitoch membranes they're accumulating
everywhere that you have fat u in
proportion to the amount that you ate
and the halflife of uh these fatty acids
in your body is 600 to 680 days so you
can round it off it's about two years so
when people quit consuming vegetable
oils it will take about three years to
get those entirely out of your body
that's how long it'll take well you talk
maybe three years before it turns into
half of what it
right well incredibly yeah the I you
know because of pharmacology I was under
the impression when I first learned this
that that it would take five Half Lives
to get them out of your body but there
is a paper that showed that if you do
all the math it the the the authors
figured this out this was decades ago
they figured out that you can ex you can
overturn all of your fatty acids in
three years even though the half-life is
uh 600 to 680 days of these fatty acids
so so that's kind of good and bad news
the the good news is is that you'll
eventually get there the bad news is it
might take you three years you know to
completely get your your uh fats in your
body down to ancestral levels was what I
call it because they're extremely high
today incredible incredible um
you know it's um right now um what I'm
doing is I'm trying to trying to broaden
my educational uh materials to the
average person on the street to get them
aware of what they're eating so we have
a whole simple campaign to um uh get
people to start reading labels so we go
in their Pantry we go in their their
refrigerator and we get them first of
all we teach them you know how identify
the at least three things this junk food
you know the synthetic sugars synthetic
starches and the seed oils and then we
go to the grocery store and then uh we
start reading labels and it's
interesting it takes you know quite a
few of those labels before they all of a
sudden they get it and they go wow I've
never even read a label before and
they're just looking around amazed for
the first time they're recognizing that
it's it's hard to find quality food in
the grocery store which is a huge step
up um because they didn't even know that
they didn't even know um but then a
month later we just come back and we
interview them um once they have some
key knowledge on that um it's like
they're not going back because they feel
so much better the inflammation goes
down exactly you start cutting out the
seed oils right I mean and you know um I
hadn't really thought about this till
till this moment but um one of the
easiest ways to get seed oils out of
your diet is just not to buy anything
that has a label I mean if you just if
you buy meats eggs
essentially um I guess you know Dairy
cheese and but all the fruits and
vegetables all those a whole lot of
those things don't come with labels
right and so those are things that
really wouldn't have any vegetable oils
because they're not
processed that would be an easy way I
like that that's real simple yeah that
would it might make it pretty simple for
most if they just think you know first
of all you know all natural foods are
never going to have seed oils this is
why the uh all of the hunter gatherer
type populations who never have seed
oils uh in their diet of course they
also don't have sugar or refined flowers
but they never have obesity they have no
diabetes no heart disease almost no
cancer right that their health is just
extraordinary now you now you brought up
another question I have so if you're
let's just take I don't know one
teaspoon of this how much how many seeds
does it take to make one teaspoon I mean
I'm sure it's not one to one there's not
a lot of oil in these seats yeah U
unfortunately Eric I can't remember
those numbers but it would yeah it would
be um I I know people maybe you've even
done it um talked about how many um ears
of corn it takes to make
uh a couple a tablespoon or so of uh of
corn oil and it's extraordinary I'm
going to do a video on that I think that
would be an interesting topic you know I
um I did recently um search out how much
it costs to buy a metric ton of Dent
corn which is inedible a field corn oh
and that's basically what ends up in all
of our food um you can right now
actually of as of last month anyway you
could buy it for
$198 a metric ton of corn W which then
can produce um I think it was up almost
7,000 boxes of corn flakes so the
profitability on corn because it's
subsidized is so great I mean what a
great business to get into if you have
an evil purpose um because it's so bad
and I think also I mean they can make
also starches and then oil you know it's
like you could just turn that into
anything but I I don't know when I when
I look at corn and I just even
envisioning chewing corn I don't I don't
see a lot of oil coming out of there I
mean I don't know maybe I'm wrong but no
you wouldn't in 2014 I looked at the
data on um the cost of seed oils
globally and it averaged exactly $1 us
per th per kilo per a th000 grams of
seed oil so did I did the math so again
we since we were consuming 80 of seed
oils in 2010 and it's really similar
since then it's really close to that um
that 80 grams would cost if it's soybean
oil which is the most popular oil in the
United States by far that would cost uh
processed food manufacturers 5.6 cents
that's why they use it if they were to
use butter instead it would cost 36
Cents so it's about six times more
costly to put but in a product which
would make it healthy than it would to
put in seed oils so if you think about
it like you know to make poptarts you
need a you know you need vegetable oil
refined flour and sugar right and for 10
cents they probably can make Pop-Tarts
that cost three or four dollars you know
U and that's what processed food is no
matter where you look whether it's a you
know whether it's pizza or poptarts or
or chips
they're all you know containing a lot of
the same ingredients refined flour
sugars and Seed oils you pay three times
you you pay um taxpayers you pay certain
Farmers to grow that crop so you just
paid for it then you buy the product and
then you have to pay the doctor for all
the side effects you get from it so
you're it's it might sound like you're
saving money but I don't think you are
saving money no I really think that it
you know if you spend the extra money to
get healthy food free of processed foods
in the first place it definitely will
cost you a bit more I don't know exactly
what that number would be but it'll cost
you more um than the same Cal caloric
content for process foods for for
certain but I think in the end it could
save you a thousandfold I'm making up
that number but when I look at people
that what you know what's being spent at
at the end of life with I mean with hard
disease and Cancer Care and autoimmune
disease care they I mean it's so common
for these people to you know to have
bills that are Beyond $20,000 a month
yeah to take care of them right you're
an optomologist you uh you you studied
the eye and this is probably you you got
well I know this you got interested in
this the seed oils just from looking at
U macular problems right is that how you
really I kind of it was the other way
around I really started looking at um uh
you know processed foods and all this
chronic disease that was you know where
I was back in 2013 about 11 years ago
and then that year Eric I I did uh
hypothesized just to myself that
possibly processed foods might also be
driving age related macur generation AMD
the leading cause of irreversible vision
loss and blindness in people over the
age of 50 worldwide and I ultimately did
leave practice to pursue that very
question to pursue the research on that
um and uh and we looked at data in 25
Nations uh and the the every single
nation the data completely supported the
hypothesis that it's mostly vegetable
oils and probably sugar and refined
flour the processed foods driving Macar
de generation but the overwhelming C uh
I'll say cause and use the term loosely
um because I hate to use just
Association or correlation because we
all want to know what the cause is right
and I think so I would say the cause was
is the is the vegetable oils and that's
why eventually then I just came back to
my roots which was start looking at this
in relation to obesity and metabolic
disease diabetes Alzheimer's and all
this right and so that's kind of where
I've been over the last six years now
wow yeah
fascinating this is awesome so I'm um
definitely going to recommend everyone
get this book right here I'll put a link
down below because this is like the the
Bible of seed oils everything you want
to know about it but it's just
fascinating um all the data I don't know
how you compile this data because this
is a major uh project uh I mean like
I'll do a video I know what it takes to
put into one video but you just this did
this masterpiece it's like this could
this is like a work of art I mean just
the amount of data and correlation and
uh uh research I mean I don't know how
you did it but I I'm glad you did it and
so now it's all summarized for someone
yeah well I I'm a data
junkie I I just kind of live and die by
data I figure that you know data is
where data doesn't tell you the answers
but it leads you to the answers I think
is you know if it's good data and so
yeah I think it's just extremely
important to paint the these pictures
for for all of us because I learned from
it too and I I'm just like everybody
else I just want to know what what are
the right answers what are the true
answers you do that every day in your
work Eric but um but I mean I I've been
working on this for about 13 years now
and um and uh I just love trying to
figure it out I just like the
investigation and I I want to bring this
knowledge to the people you isolated
something that I I really think is the
is the key to um to the whole thing so
you you stumbled on something really big
and um uh we just need to get the word
out so hopefully this video will be seen
by many people and hopefully shared by
many as well that'd be great thanks a
million yeah thank you thank you
