hey guys I want to tell you what
happened when I increase my fasting to
21 hours it's quite interesting I did an
experiment on myself
now normally I eat around twelve or
maybe one and six and seven so I get
about 18 hours of fasting with a six
hour eating window and normally I do
videos like the one I'm doing now
between 12 o'clock and 2 or 3 so the
experiment that I did in myself is
simply eat when I got back from filming
so my first meal was at 3 and the second
meal was at 6 so that's just a three
hour eating window that gives me 21
hours of fasting compared to 18 it
doesn't seem like much but it made a
significant difference in my cognitive
function I noticed when I was on this
pattern there is definitely more editing
more mistakes
so in this pattern right here fasting
for 21 hours rarely did I make any
mistakes it was quite remarkable so
there are improvements in memory for
sure more focused better learning I can
in the mornings I'm always studying
something I can digest and assimilate
things much better I can locate things I
remember where I put things a more
creative way better mood lets
grouchiness and less irritable this not
that I'm ever grouchy or irritable ok 7
increase productivity I mentioned that
already I'm just getting a lot more done
more organized because of the focus and
more decisive so I really don't need any
study to convince me all I needed to do
was do my own experiment and see for
myself but if you actually look at the
research this is what happens you
actually increase something called BDNF
stands for a brain derived neurotrophic
factor this is a protein that actually
helps you grow your neurons and synapses
it's like miracle-gro for your brain it
just helps regrow brain cells it also
slows aging also when you're doing
fasting you're increasing your ketones
which naturally support
the brain your brain prefers ketones
over glucose also your increasing etapa
G tatha G cleans out all the damaged
protein out of the brain like the
amyloid plaque and fasting improves the
little connections the synapses between
the neurons now the other thing you have
to realize is that when someone gets
Alzheimer's it doesn't just happen
overnight it's been brewing in the oven
for quite some years sometimes 20
sometimes 30 years before you end up
getting this condition but it always
starts with a loss of cognitive function
so the big problem with Alzheimer's is
that it's silent you don't know you have
it until later in life so I want to
challenge you with an experiment on
yourself now you may already be at this
pattern or even doing Oh mad or even
longer right now but if you're at 18
hours or less I challenge you to try
this pattern right here so have the
first meal at 3 o'clock and the second
meal at 6 o'clock
give yourself 21 hours and try this for
3 days evaluate your cognitive function
and post the comments below and lastly
check out this other video I have on the
screen relating to the different
patterns of intermittent fasting for
different conditions you'll really enjoy
this
