so I had another question should I do
Kido and I F if I am under weight so I
wanted to do a very quick video because
this is a really good question
so Kido and in a minute fasting is not
just for weight loss it's for getting
healthy improving your energy levels
decreasing the need for sleep decreasing
inflammation improving your cognitive
function its anti-aging good for focus
memory and your overall mood and a list
of many more benefits as well so if you
don't want to lose weight all you have
to do is add more fat to the meals very
simply because that way your body will
use that as its fuel versus your own
stored fat okay so start with 3 meals ok
some people just do 3 meals no snacks
that's their kind of mild version of
intermittent fasting I would recommend
going working up to 2 meals a day a
lunch and a dinner that would be the
ideal situation in which case you just
load up with a little more fat and you
will not lose weight if you do that so
in summary yes I would highly recommend
you in keto NIF if you're underweight
and I just wanted to make one more point
is there any contraindications for keto
and I off like for kids or pregnancy or
nursing and the answer is not for kids
kids can do this
definitely but for if you're pregnant
you can definitely do healthy keto but
maybe not do in a minute fasting maybe
just do 3 meals no snacks if you're
nursing same thing
don't start restricting your meals too
much because we just want to make sure
that you're fully adapted and the infant
is getting enough nutrients alright
thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called a new body type guide is
an upgrade from my last Edition called
the seven principles of fat burning it
has a hundred fifty six images three
hundred seventy eight pages full
glossary I talk about Kido in a minute
fasting the body types in detail I have
a new stressed chapter I'm going to show
you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
