hi guys there's a condition called a can
ptosis Negron's I want to talk about
this is basically a hyperpigmentation in
the body folds of the you know
underneath the armpits the forehead the
groin different parts of the body where
it's kind of a darkened appearance now
if you see someone like this or you have
this you can pretty much know for sure
what they're consuming it's refined
carbohydrates they're eating frequently
because what causes this condition is
high levels of insulin okay or insulin
resistance which then causes high levels
of insulin so that's a pre-diabetic
situation and this person could also be
a diabetic as well but I just want let
you know that this can be reversed if
you reduce the insulin okay so I put a
link down below of some possible things
you can do relating to diet
doing in a minute fasting ketosis is a
really good thing but I want to also
mention there's another condition that
can mimic a version of this called
pellagra it's not as common but pellagra
can give you a similar appearance around
your neck okay plugger is a b3
deficiency in the early 1900's more
people died of this vitamin deficiency
than any other vitamin deficiency ever
okay in the US and basically the where
that came from
is people consuming milled corn
ground-up cornmeal like in grits okay in
the south so that creates serious
deficiencies vitamin b3 so again if you
have this condition and your blood
sugars are normal and you're consuming a
lot of corn products grits corn chips
cornmeal you know that could be another
possibility but if you're consuming that
chances are your blood sugars are off as
well but I put a link down below to give
you more information on how to help
manage this insulin so if you have this
condition watch this if you know someone
share it with them alright thanks for
watching
thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
