if you want the absolute best natural
remedy for
addadhd stay tuned this data is from Dr
William Kaufman MD PhD I'll put his link
down below there is a very simple
vitamin deficiency involved in this
condition but you cannot fix this
condition by taking the normal amounts
of this vitamin you have to take higher
amounts
there's two main versions of this
vitamin you have nin and naside the one
that you're going to need for this
condition is niin amide you know one of
the big challenges with uh using vitamin
therapy is that um the research is
usually using low doses of vitamins
which are basically worthless and the
other problem is that just the medical
community is unaware of this not to
mention the bad PR and vitamins you know
they're dangerous they kill people which
is absolutely not true and also like
onethird of of 125 medical schools give
you elective credits for nutrition like
Cornell is like you get eight hours of
nutritional information eight hours so
check this out vitamin B3 what it can do
for your brain first of all it's the
precursor it's the building block for a
very important thing in your cells that
helps you extract energy from food it's
called NAD and so when you eat whether
it's protein fats or
carbohydrates this molecule helps to
take these electrons from that food and
put it into a battery called ATP so if
you don't have that then your cells
can't get energy and so Dr Kaufman talks
about this research with animals called
increased running when you take B3 or
what they call
hyperkinesis which is hyperactivity
could that affect your ability to hold
your concentration on one without going
into another the answer is yes you know
you start one project and then you're
off to the next project without even
finishing this project right here the
actual power of a person is their
ability to hold their attention on
something that they're doing while
they're doing it and not to do something
else with their mind at the same time
which could be either dangerous or just
non-efficient or
nonproductive so vitamin B3 can greatly
help
your nerve cells uh get energy so you
can actually hold your attention on
something and not be so Restless or
having to move every 5 seconds so B3 can
help the hyperactivity and the focus at
the same time there's a lot of people
who have these conditions that um
they're so tired but they can't go to
sleep it's terrible so they overall have
this like nervous wound up feeling and I
had this for many years and I didn't
know what it was when you become
efficient in certain nutrients the brain
and nervous system get hyp excited and
then they kind of burn out but that's
really what happens so B3 is very very
important for the neuron to calm it down
to help it balance all the
neurotransmitters and on top of that the
most important thing is to give the
neurons energy the version of B3 that
you need to take is niacinamide now
niacinamide is water soluble so it's not
going to stay in the body for very long
so what you want to do is you want to
take 250 milligram six to eight times a
day and this can work great for children
and of course I'm not telling you to
come off your medication and uh you know
check with your doctor with all that I'm
just giving you some fascinating
research that you need to be aware of
and Implement if you want an alternative
because there's very low toxicity or
side effects if any at all the research
on this has been ignored for 70 years
okay so it's about time that we know
about it and we spread the word and I'm
going to put some more information about
the doctor down below so you can study
more about this but it's actually quite
fascinating but I'm also going to
recommend that you get on the right diet
for this as well and uh because just by
taking this vitamin it's just it's not
going to be the cure all it's going to
help you while you're doing these other
things as well and for that information
you should watch this video right here
