hey guys today we're going to answer the
question can diabetes actually be
reversed okay I think what we need to do
for that answer is to go to the experts
okay so of course I went to the American
Diabetes Association website okay and I
printed out an article I just want to go
through some highlights
they had a section here type 2 diabetes
remission without surgery does happen
but very rarely darn it okay so however
there's been cases of type 2 diabetes
remission most often this happens in
people who have had weight loss surgery
rarely it has also been reported in
people who have made lifestyle changes
only so we can make changes but it's
very rare let's go to page two what did
the researchers find over seven years
one point four seven percent of the
entire group had partial remission point
one four percent had a complete
remission and point zero zero seven
percent had a prolonged remission
overall one point six percent of the
entire group had some sort of remission
okay so that's pretty pathetic one point
six percent it's not very good so what
are the implications of the study type 2
diabetes remission can occur in people
who have not had weight loss surgery but
it is very comma very rare applying the
results of the study to the entire
twenty five point six million Americans
with type 2 diabetes suggests that three
hundred eighty four thousand people
could have some type of remission in the
next seven years
however only eighteen hundred people
would have a remission lasting five
years so the question I want to know is
what did you feed them and you can't
find this information out with the study
so I could not find out what they fed
them so I did some searching and I found
some really interesting data on keto
okay
and it's called the Verta okay it's
putting people on a healthy ketosis diet
they've done a research and they found
six
80% reversal of diabetes type 2 using
Kido after 1 year ok 60% reversal that's
a little higher than 1.6 percent right
and on top of that 94% of people using
insulin we're able to reduce or
eliminate their usage after one year so
I put a link down below for more
information on that but here's the thing
on a daily basis I'm seeing people on
the ketogenic diet with massive changes
in their blood sugars coming off
medications no longer becoming diabetic
so if you want to actually improve your
results from 1.6 percent to 60 percent
do the ketogenic diet but do it
healthily thanks for watching so I want
to know what you're interested in as far
as a future video click the link down
below and share some ideas I want to
hear
