there are four very common ingredients
that shorten your life and kill you
prematurely when I was in practice for
30 years I really tried to get people to
change their ways I try to get them to
eat healthier but eating healthy is
expensive and I would talk to people
until they're blw in the face and not
get anywhere and I stumbled on this when
I was going to people's homes and then
we would go to the grocery store and we
would you know teach them what to eat
and I personally had an aha moment an
average person does not
recognize the four ingredients in
99.999% of all junk Foods the whole
label on Foods is just completely
confusing and no one can make any sense
out of it you're never going to
understand what the food is unless you
understand the ingredients in the food
it would be very similar to looking at a
label in a different language right I
mean it just does not communicate
because every single word in there is
just foreign to you now I just want to
read off some of these ingredients
hydroxypropyl diarch phosphate
interesterified soybean oil hydrolized
corn oil Malto dextrin dextrose dextrin
so just ignore those words right now
because you literally fall asleep if I
keep talking about it I mean could you
imagine if I started talking about you
know the cycop pentanal peranee
hydrophenanthrene that we're about to
disc I mean like I'm just going to
literally make you unconscious these
words are chemical names for junk food
ingredients and I really think they're
purposely put in there just to hide
what's really in there so the junk food
industry is camouflaging their
ingredients number one number two these
companies have normalized junk Foods as
part of a regular diet and number three
these companies spend millions of
dollars to downplay the bad effects of
their ingredients
to
neutralize these ingredients there is no
bad food group right I mean that is
completely created by big food you know
as long as you're eating a balanced diet
you'll be fine what they have done very
successfully is made their ingredients
the same level as other ingredients like
a calorie from the fructose and high
fructose corn syrup is the same calories
as fructose and fruit they're identical
this is absolutely positively a % not
true well I'll tell you right now
there's a huge difference between the
starch and vegetables and the synthetic
starch they get from corn there's also a
big difference between cane sugar and
then synthetic sugar like glucose syrup
now the other thing you need to know is
that you cannot determine the quality of
the food by looking at this part of the
label right here called the nutritional
facts you have to read this part right
here which is really hard to read unless
you have magnifying glasses I can't even
read this right here I wonder if that's
on purpose or not so there's a super
simple way to identify these four
ingredients that are in
99.99% of all junk food the first one is
sugar and I'm not even talking about
sugar cane I'm talking about the
synthetic sugars and there's a lot of
different chemical names for sugar okay
then you have starches what's a starch
starch is a sugar okay and I'm not
talking about the starches and
vegetables I'm talking about the
synthetically made highly processed
starches then we have seed oils very
very highly processed and then number
four we have highly processed refined
proteins soy protein isolates and you
have casine in different forms that's
like milk protein and by the way there's
a significant uh amount of casine coming
from China it's not really regulated you
have no idea how these cows are treated
before they you know get the milk milk
from them and so many people have
allergies to casine and you have also a
type of protein that creates more
inflammation called A1 beta casine you
don't want that in your body you want
the A2 and I'll guarantee all the casine
protein that they use in junk Foods is a
one so a lot of people get bloating when
they have this concentrated casine
protein not to mention the soy protein
isets uh have heavy amounts of hexane
which is a solvent it's in gasoline and
there's really no regulation or
monitoring how much of that hexane is in
that product and then you also have
wheat gluten I created a little card
cutout you download it you cut it out
and you put it in your wallet and then
you match it up with this card and that
way I list all the different chemical
names and that way you don't have to
memorize any of the names so out of all
the things that you can change to make
your health better this is the most
important so click the link down below
to download the little card so you can
cut it out and put it in your wallet
immediately
