so welcome Soomn Um thank you so much
for doing this interview I I saw your
before and after It was just utterly
incredible So I wanted to kind of get
your story on where you were before and
what you did Can you tell me a little
bit about your your past as far as you
know did you have a weight problem
Yeah Um actually to be honest you know I
I was diet I was experimenting a lot
with
diets and uh nothing really worked you
know and I was so depressed about it I
gained a lot of weight and then I did
some diets where I lost the weight
actually but then I gained it so much
faster back and so it was it was more of
a I didn't have a problem with a high
carb diet or or any of the other diets
it's just it's not sustainable in a in a
long run and and then because I always
crave for things and I always want to
eat something specific you know I didn't
know what was the reason that time but
then uh at one point last year in
October if I believe I saw one of your
videos and I I didn't know about Kato
really and I just uh watched your videos
because you didn't mention in some of
your videos that you're doing ketosis or
something
uh but I just followed it then I found
out yeah it's about ketosis and I lost a
lot of weight in during three or four
months I lost most of the fat
weight yeah and mostly uh my body also
changed uh yeah and a body composition
have changed mostly for me that's what
made me so happy because I I tried other
diets before where The body composition
didn't change I was skinny fat I don't
know how it's called Yeah So with the
training you said like don't do more
than 20 minutes of training So I did in
those uh I followed that I did high
interval training for 20 minutes So that
helped me a lot also to change the way
my my body looks Wow Did you work out
every day or every other day No I work
out um four or five times You know to be
honest you know there are days that I
don't really work out and days where I
do train hard Did you start off with
keto and intermittent fasting or do you
just do keto No I I started first with
keto
Yeah And then after I started with the
intermittent fasting I did the two
meals and then after I started with the
one meal
How many uh kilos did you lose total I I
lost 30 kilo Yes 30 plus And was there
any other benefits like energy memory uh
any other uh positive things Uh to be
honest at the beginning it wasn't uh
easy Uh at the beginning you know like
um I didn't know it was called Koflu I
just um I was kind of doubtful of the
way of the of the of the program because
I was feeling really bad digest I had so
many so much the digestive problems to
be honest because I think my body wasn't
used to to a lot of the uh fiber of the
uh of the greens the cruciferous
vegetables So I I in the beginning I
suffered with digestive problems and I
uh my energy was messed up but then
after that it cleared up really fast Did
you change any did you change anything
or just give it more time No I gave it
time Yeah So uh yeah I think I don't
know Did you see the video on keto flu
Yes I then I later I saw it and then I I
thought oh my god that's exactly what
happened to me and yeah that's what
that's the re then I felt relaxed that
okay there's symptoms you know there's a
stage stages that you have to go through
in order to uh you know to adapt to the
ketosis Yeah cuz your cells you
literally have to build new enzymes new
cellular machinery to be able to deal
with this new fuel source So that's uh a
whole different uh thing But um so what
tell me what what you would eat in a
given meal um on average At the at the
beginning I was kind of confused you
know because uh but then later on I I uh
it become easier for me to pro uh to to
make my meals because uh it was before
three meals then four but then when I
did the intermittent fasting I broke it
down I put it I condested all to one
meal and in that meal I I have to have
my proteins and my uh veggies and my
fats of course uh usually I don't go
more than 10 ounces of
protein and vegetables I go I I do
consume a lot of vegetables I go for f
between five to 10 cups I like I like my
veggies and in the clean fats is avocado
uh avocado
oils and uh what else You know I nothing
comes up with my Yeah eggs I I like Yeah
homemade mayonnaise I do I don't I never
the one of the problems that I went
through in the beginning is finding you
know like a good brand of mayonnaise
that has no sugar in it or or a ketchup
that has no sugar So it was extremely
difficult So you know most of the time I
go to the supermarket I buy some stuff
thinking that it's healthy then I end up
looking at the label it's it's
everything is sugar sugar everywhere So
that was kind of uh difficult for me
because when I go to the supermarket I
can't find anything that I can eat
because literally there is everywhere
sugar you know Oh my gosh Where do you
live I I live in
Kuwait
And I don't know if if you want if
you're willing to hear a story you know
like about about ketogenic
At the beginning people were very
doubtful of my diet you know and they
were they were thinking that I'm crazy
and and when I at that time during that
time when I started it I was very
overweight my mother she was telling me
you have to be careful because it's a
high cholesterol diet and you might end
up clogging your arteries and you might
have a heart attack or something But you
I I was like okay y like all of my
members of my family they have
genetically high cholesterol So I
thought okay let me take a different
route I don't want to take the chrystor
or liptor the the cholesterol
medications I want to do a healthy kind
of life pure and and clean And so at the
beginning it was hard Then later on you
know I went I did my blood test and my
cholesterol came out very high And I was
kind of shocked about this even though I
lost a lot of weight Then I went back
through through your videos and then you
said no because you as you said just now
a minute ago the the cells they get they
get shrunk and then the fat cells they
have to go through the
bloodstream So I thought let me give my
body a chance to adapt more
and two three months I did my blood test
again and my cluster was at the normal
range I I was so happy you know like I I
sorry doctor like I have two members of
my family you know one died of a heart
stroke and one is disabled from the neck
down just because of heart disease and I
didn't want to take that route because I
if I'm going to take start taking
tablets I'm going to start oh it's going
to open for me other doors like other
medications and I thought no I don't
want to do that I wanted to go into
ketosis and I got committed and people
saw my results there you know members of
the family who who are they're happy
They're eating because in our country we
eat lots of rice lots of lots of rice
you know you have a huge plate of rice
maybe more than 20 cups of rice and then
this small piece of vegetable on the top
and the meat and the meat on the top So
so it's like a sugar oriented country
And even my kids you know I got them you
know I I removed all the sugars in the
house and you know like it changed them
It changed the way they they even in
their behavior in school the teachers
are telling me they all changed So
that's for me it's not about diet it's
about the lifestyle It changed my whole
life you know even my home you know And
does it does it did it help to
understand why you're doing that as far
as to understand insulin and how that
all works In in the beginning I didn't
understand any of that but your videos
helped a lot Really your videos helped
so much and it was very instructive It
took me like it was like a more of a
biology course you know with your videos
So it and yeah it helped so much you
know with my journey and I thank you for
that really Yeah And then when you wake
up in the morning when's the first time
you eat I I eat my my fasting uh window
starts from 5 to 7 4 hour window I have
daily Yeah Okay And then the next meal
you eat would be when the next day
24-hour fast and like sorry a 20our fast
Okay So so your uh how was your do you
have any cravings anymore In the
beginning yes in the beginning here I
had so much craving I wanted to go for
junk food
uh um mostly of course sugary carbs
breads and cakes and all the and
biscuits and all these things uh
beginning I had such a huge craving but
now no once I eat the healthy foods the
K2 food I don't have any craving at all
even I can sustain so long you know for
20 more than 20 hours even there were
times that even my fasting window is is
near that I that I should be eating I
don't I don't want to eat I'm I'm so
full because my last meal from the last
day it was just enough for me that's
that's fascinating it goes completely
against what people are used to because
you're running on fat which I'm sure you
could even feel It's a different it's a
different feeling running in fat versus
sugar and feels good and um do you think
you'll ever go back to your old ways I I
to be I'll be honest also I I went I
went back to uh for a couple of only a
couple of days for one or two days I
thought I thought because you know like
I have to try it you know I have to go
back to and maybe just enjoy it I
thought you know then I started eating
rice and bread in those two days and I
felt so bad I felt really really
terrible I had such a huge headache even
though in those two days I didn't have
like anything with sugar I just had
bread and I had such a throbbing pain in
my head and then I realized oh my god
that this is not good for the body It's
just uh you know it messes up your
energy levels And so the then I stopped
completely After that I I swore off
carbs It's so funny I'm the same way
Like when I was uh in my early 30s and
started changing my diet I would test
the waters and go back and just really
to make sure this is the right thing I'd
go back and forth and I'm like "Okay I'm
convinced I'm going to stick with this
healthy program cuz I've been beaten up
so much." And of course sounds like
you're really disciplined I was I would
um I would I waited till the last minute
till I was dying before I did anything
Yeah The cravings they they do I think
it's more of a I don't want to call it a
craving I want to call it more of a
sentimental memory because uh like you
know I relate this kind of food with a
memory like McDonald's is like a
cheeseburger I I remember like it's fun
to eat this It's you know you gather
around people you drink the cola It's a
good memory behind it So what I did you
know to to replace that I I did my kind
of version you know of a you know of a
of a burger You know I I get a really
good quality beef I get a good quality
cheese I do the oopsy bread you know
like I don't know if you know that one
Uh and the lettuce So it it tastes much
better and and you you know and you and
still get the benefits of the K2 diet
you know So that's I think the the best
way to do it if you've crave for
something you try to replace it you know
try to adapt it to the keto lifestyle I
don't know I don't know if that makes
sense you know
Yeah personally when I when I'll eat a
meal me meal now I'm not really that
hungry and I just eat because I know I
have to I need to you know sustain that
So I'm just like I'm just eating for
health right now you know and yes
there's some it's not so like I'm oh my
god before I have to have this food and
oh my gosh I feel so much better and
then bam Yeah it breaks up the energy
you know and you want to have when I
start to eat carbs even I don't have
energy for my workout I can't even
exercise I feel like my stomach is so
busy you know like trying to digest the
the bread or the or the rice you know
and so then I then it what is called um
it stops me from doing my workouts my
daily workouts But when I eat clean
foods clean protein clean uh fats and
veggies I have so much energy I can't
I'm like non-stop in the gym Wow that's
amazing Now do you uh are other people
looking at you like they saw you before
now they see after Are they asking you
"What are you doing?" Yes Now like it's
now the people who doubted me and they
look at me like "Oh my god what is he
eating?" You know he's eating fats He's
eating mayo mayo and whatever And I
thought and now they're all of them like
members of because here in Kuwait we
have that I don't know if you watch that
movie my big fat Greek wedding and in
these t they have in the table you know
lots of food rice breads and potatoes
and all these things you know and and
they look at my food because I bring my
own food to the table and and then after
they will look at me and they see
they're confused but now it's different
Now they want to try out my foods Now
they they want to ask what do you eat
What do you don't eat And how did you
get into such amazing shape Wow And like
that's what uh like exciting about this
diet you know and people come in and
they and
they you know they want to see what
what's the what made this results for
you and what made you change so much
because I people you know like I have
also an uncle he's have stage two
diabetic and he saw me he's like oh my
godam you come so different now you how
even your legs are different your face
is different your hands are different
how can you
how did you do I said "Okay you know
what This kind of diet that I do is even
good for you because you're you have
stage two diabetic So this is perfect
for you you know because it's going to
stabilize your energy and it's going to
make you lose weight also." Then he
actually tried it and he lost so much
weight and I I would like to share his
story also with you but you know maybe
if he agrees you know he's private kind
of person So but he was happy from the
results He was happy He didn't lost a
lot because he's not very strict but if
he's really strict he would I think he
would really benefit from it really So
people around me got inspired even you
know they they all want to try it out
you know and if some of them they try it
out for a week they see it's difficult
they can't adjust but they see the
results they do actually see the results
they cannot now deny it you know they
will never say no it's not working right
that's awesome well thank you so much
for your uh story it's incredible and
the before and after is amazing so yeah
appreciate that it'll inspire a lot of
people thank you so much doctor thank
you great have a Great afternoon if it's
a What time is it there now
It's only 8:00 p.m Oh okay Well have a
great night
Thank you Thank you All right Uh I just
want to say doctor like you you've been
amazing for me you know thank you so
much Uh I would say like if it weren't
for you I wouldn't have reached the the
body that I want really and and the
shape that I want and the energy that I
want Thank you really thank you from the
bottom of my heart my children my family
everyone is like happy to see me like
now I've uh reached the reached not just
the the physical level also the
emotional level also because that
changed me really the the way that you
know how can I say for you you know
thank you you're a godsend for me thank
you wow thank you I appreciate that
thank you and please keep up sending
videos you know it helps us a lot you
know it helps me so much okay I will
I'll creating some right now actually
Okay You're welcome Good luck Thank you
Thank you Byebye Byebye
