what would the first sign of a methyl
camine deficiency look like that's a B12
deficiency you know it's kind of
important since it controls your DNA
your red blood cells your milein sheath
that surrounds the nerves like kind of
like this cord right if I were to take
off the insulation of this cord and
touch it with another piece of metal it
would short circuit and you can get
electrocuted so myin is the surroundings
of your nerves to protect them and when
that goes you start getting all sorts of
tingling and numbness and burning and
things like that and b12 does have a lot
to do with supporting your spinal column
your brain and you know if you're
deficient it could end up with a bit of
permanent damage and cause you to be in
chronic pain because of the nerve damage
as well as depression and even muscle
wasting but other than that well there's
a couple more side effects blurry vision
tunitis anemia mouth ulcers
sore throat and hair loss on the flip
side challenge with this deficiency of
methyl camine is a toxicity so in other
words you can have symptoms from having
not enough and symptoms from having too
much I'm going to put this research down
below but as far as toxicity from B12
that's usually going to happen if you're
taking the synthetic version not the
methyl camine but the cyanol camine I
mean cyanol what is that that's cyanide
that combines with the um Cobalt and it
makes this very complex vitamin and that
has to be converted into the methyl
camine and for various reasons I'm going
to talk about it can build up in the
body and cause acne
palpitations anxiety red skin on your
face like red cheeks headaches insomnia
and also another condition called
akathesia where the person is so
Restless
that they just can't sit still they have
intense agitation and sometimes to the
point of feeling suicidal right from a
B12 toxicity you might say well how
would I get that well take a look at the
back of some of these energy drinks or
these uh one aay or even some of the
supplements or fortified Foods they
really jack up that B12 to like between
8,000 to 14,000 per of the rdas B12
should only be given in micrograms not
like massive massive amounts unless it's
in a natural form called the methyl
camine form so for that reason I don't
recommend doing the inexpensive
synthetic cyano camine now what would be
the first sign that you would feel
initially if you started becoming
deficient in B12 well that symptom is
are you ready for this asymptomatic
there is no symptom and what I mean by
that is is like it takes a long time for
you to feel the effects of a B12
deficiency as it's brewing in the oven
the damage is being created but you
don't necessarily feel it because it's
deep into this nervous system however uh
one of the first symptoms that you would
feel would be extreme fatigue now how
does one become deficient in B12 it
could be because of your diet because
you don't eat animal products there is
no B12 in Plants okay it's an animal
products or bacteria that can create B12
so if someone's plant-based vegan they
can develop a B12 deficiency unless they
take B12 but the more likely reason why
someone's deficient especially if
they're older is absorption they don't
have good absorption in their digestive
system either there's something wrong
with the stomach they don't have
hydrochloric acid because think about it
animal products have B12 right so when
you digest meat you have to break down
that protein if you don't have enough
hydrochloric acid you can't break down
the protein to dislodge that B12 vitam
so it's all locked up in the protein so
you never pull it out so hydrochloric
acid is a very important thing to help
you get B12 and so many people have a
loss of stomach acid or their stomach
acid is not strong the way that someone
should identify as an indicator they
need more acid is if they have gas
indigestion acid reflux good if this is
surprising to you you should watch the
video I have on that topic after we're
done with this video and I'll put that
link down below but other problems with
the stomach too like um having part of
your stomach removed maybe gastric
bypass something like that that can
create a B12 deficiency or if you have
atrophy of the stomach uh for some
reason or gastritis or you have this H
pylori infection you have this ulcer
because you're going through stress or
you're deficient in zinc so there's a
lot of different things that can go
wrong with the stomach or the small
intestine or the large intestine so if
you have inflammation in your
intestines could be from any condition
that can be why you're deficient in B12
also if you take aspirin that can create
a B12 deficiency if you drink alcohol
that can create it if you eat junk food
that can create it if you're on
antibiotics or you're on some an acid or
PPI that can create a B12 deficiency or
even if you're on birth control pills
that's also been known to create a B12
deficiency if a woman is pregnant or
lactating the need for that B12 goes up
so it's very very important for a woman
who's either pregnant or lactating to
eat super healthy if a person's low on
folate they can have almost identical
symptoms to a B12 deficiency because
folate and b12 work together now the
another interesting thing about uh this
is that if you're a smoker right you're
breathing in cide okay and if you're
taking cyl camine a synthetic B12 the
cyanide version has to be dislodged and
has to convert over well the cide from
the smoking can lock back up that
vitamin and you'll become deficient and
b12 because you're a smoker another
reason why you should quit but there's
one more reason why people are deficient
that is very important to know about and
that's a genetic reason and the term for
that is called polymorphism which I'm
not going to get too much into that all
you need to know it's related to your
genes and the name of that gene is
called
MTHFR okay that's a gene and if you have
a problem with that Gene you're G to
have a problem with uh the enzyme that
it produces in relationship to being
able to use or convert this B12 and
folate so you're G problems with the
synthetic version of both of these
nutrients okay so folic acid would be
the synthetic version usually and it's
mostly in like enriched and fortified
foods and synthetic vitamins if you have
this genetic issue you better avoid
folic acid you need the folate version
and it's called methylfolate right and
you also need the methyl camine not the
cyl camine or you can have a lot of
problems um relating to homocysteine
building up increasing your risk of
heart problems stroke depression or
anxiety from that and another symptom
would be you just can't detoxify so if
you just have a little toxicity in your
diet boy it just really affects you in a
bad way and I have a video on that too
and I will put that link down below
because it's an easy fix if you have
this problem now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link down below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
