one of the big missing things in
medicine is the recognition that there
are nutritional deficiencies that cause
a lot of health problems they kind of
downplay that instead you have this
cause and effect relationship and the
cause which medically they call it
idiopathic which means unknown cause so
today I'm going to talk about six
devastating problems with a nutritional
deficiency so the first one is called
neosia okay this is a condition to
describe where your nervous system and
your brain is depleted it's exhausted
and you're going to have all sorts of
associated symptoms fatigue mood
problems like you're going to be
probably apathetic the nutrient that you
need to supply in certain amounts in
sufficient Amounts is vitamin B3 in the
form of niin and you need about 500
milligrams to start out with for maybe 3
days and then graduate up to about
a, milligrams of nasin every single day
you can split it up like 500 in the
morning 500 at lunchtime now of course
given the fact that you're also changing
your diet as well you have to do other
things but nin is the solution for that
one the next condition is tourettes
sudden involuntary movements or verbal
Outburst this problem is also a B3
deficiency but to remedy it you don't
want to use niin you want to use the
other version called
nicomide so what you're really doing is
you're supplying energy to the nervous
system and you need about 500 to 1,000
Mig of Nomine now what's pretty wild
about this is the first condition is
where you have complete exhaustion of
your brain and nervous system and you're
using nasin to help fix that whereas
this condition you're using nias camide
to generate more energy to calm down
this sudden outbreak so it's going to
create a a calming effect now this next
condition is pretty interesting uh the
name of it is called persecutory
delusions you can have various mental
symptoms from a nutritional deficiency
because persecutory delusions are
basically the feeling that you're going
to either be harmed or someone's going
to mistreat you I'm very much against
when people start putting labels on
people and diagnosing them most of these
mental disorders are purely subjective I
mean just think about what you would
feel like if someone told you you were
delusional right you're not going to be
really happy about that you're going to
be very upset about that and associated
with that you have apathy you have
disorganized thoughts lack of clarity
lack of focus and also from this one
nutritional deficiency you can have an
auditory or a visual hallucination and
this deficiency is vitamin B12 a B12
deficiency can create a problem in your
nervous system where it's affecting your
perception on reality and you can
actually see certain things that are not
there the next one is restless leg
syndrome this is the urge to move your
body especially the lower part of your
body your legs usually when you're
sleeping I had this for many years in
the middle of the night it would wake me
up I had to pound my legs I just could
not be comfortable and this is either a
vitamin B1 deficiency or it could be an
iron deficiency now what could you do to
figure out if it's one or the other well
you could go get a test for the
deficiencies but you first have to know
that it could be either a B1 or an iron
deficiency there are a few other ways to
quickly identify if it's an iron
deficiency or a B1 deficiency for
example if it's an iron deficiency like
anemia um the palm of your hands might
look a little pale the inside of your
eyelids will look a little pale the nail
beds look pale and white so if you don't
have that chances are it could be more
of a B1 deficiency which is usually
caused from consuming too many refined
carbohydrates or sugar then we get
something called Panic anxiety worry
especially if you are thinking thinking
thinking thinking especially before bed
and cannot turn it off this is usually a
B1 deficiency uh I wouldn't worry about
taking high doses of B1 because vitamin
B1 is water cble now you could take the
fat cble one as well called botam but I
find that that one is more for perial
neuropathy you want to just take the
regular natural version of be one for
these other issues but it's quite
amazing in practice I would use it and
within minutes a person would just feel
very calm and very good if you haven't
tried it you might want to try it and
the last one is the sensation of
impending doom like something bad is
going to happen this is another example
of a mental problem that's coming from a
physical nutrient deficiency and this
one is vitamin D3 I would recommend
20,000 I use of vitamin D3 daily for a
few months now these are all really
interesting cause effect relationships
if you haven't seen my other video on
identifying nutritional deficiencies
based on certain symptoms I put that
video up right here check it out
