now what happens to a lot of people
during the winter is their hair gets all
messed up becomes dehydrated dry frizzy
split ends you start losing your hair
the hair becomes dull so I'm going to
give you some tips on what to do about
this the real question is why well
there's three reasons and we're going to
go right through them the first reason
is the obvious reason which is low
vitamin D because of the sun there's no
sun so we're not going to get vitamin D
so unless you take vitamin D you're
going to
usually vitamin D deficient and vitamin
D directly helps you grow hair so if
you're deficient you may have hair loss
now the second reason is is actually
quite interesting when you're deficient
in vitamin D you have this alteration
and change in your
microbiome your microbiome are dependent
on your levels of vitamin D and the type
of microbiome that I'm talking about are
the ones that help make B vitamins that
are necessary to build hair and and
we're talking about B2 B3 B6 vitamin B5
and Biotin and so without biotin your
hair is going to be very fragile it's
going to break it's going to be very
thin and dried out so by adding more
vitamin D the microbiome becomes more
balanced and you generate more of these
B vitamins so you can take B vitamins
from nutritional East or you can take
vitamin D so your microbes can make more
the vitamins all right the second reason
during the winter months people
typically don't eat as many vegetables
okay and the vegetables that they're
eating are pretty much empty of
nutrients because there's a very big
difference when you're growing
vegetables during the winter months
versus during the summer months
especially when people have their own
Gardens or they're going to the farmers
market and they're getting
nutrient-dense vegetables versus at the
store whether they're growing them
hydroponically I just noticed even the
taste of vegetables during the winter
are definitely um void of a lot of
flavor which means they're also a void
of nutrients so the combination of not
eating enough and then having them
nutrient deficient is going to show up
in your hair so we're going to have less
vitamin C vitamin C is necessary to
build collagen well guess what your hair
is made out of
collagen and the other nutrient that's
very very important for hair growth is
magnesium a lot of the Magnesium comes
from the chlorophyll the green of the
plant which is in a lot of vegetables so
less vegetables less
magnesium more susceptibility for hair
loss and then another nutrient that's in
vegetables is vitamin E especially in
salads if you're deficient in vitamin E
you can definitely uh have more hair
loss as well as more dryness because the
the hair needs that oil um in the glands
to produce a nice texture in the hair
now the other thing that's interesting
and people don't consider this a
nutrient a phytonutrients give your hair
and your skin and your body amazing
health benefits so if you're consuming
less phytonutrients that can show up in
your hair all right number three during
the winter months I know this might be
shocking but some people or most people
eat more junk food that's right I know
you're shocked and so more junk food
deprives you of nutrients and now you
start developing what's called
subclinical uh nutrient deficiencies
where you might not have major nutrient
deficiencies they're subclinical so you
might not notice these symptoms but they
show up in other subtle ways now this
research was done by professor ases and
he came up with this Theory called the
triage Theory which I think it's not a
theory I think it's absolutely true
which describes subclinical vitamin and
nutrient deficiencies being rationed out
for more immediate survival purposes so
let me give you an example with selenium
let's say you have a subclinical
deficiency with selenium and say you
don't have enough to provide for all the
different functions of the body so
instead of using selenium to prevent
hair loss the body's going to use it for
more critical um purposes like fertility
and reproduction so if your body is
deficient in a certain nutrient it's not
going to allocate that to maybe
long-term uh maintenance of different
body
functions or it might not allocate that
for uh longevity purposes or to prevent
chronic disease instead it might
allocate it for short-term survival
mechanisms that help you cope but don't
really help you survive in the long term
so this is an interesting top it because
um a lot of times people take vitamins
and if they don't feel an immediate
result they might stop taking them not
realizing that you need these nutrients
for long-term survival and to prevent a
lot of chronic illnesses I mean let's
just take magnesium for example it's
needed in over 300 different
enzymes let's take vitamin D for example
um our a huge part of our genome uh is
is dependent on vitamin D
and so if someone is just focused on
vitamin D for preventing
osteoporosis uh they're not looking at
the hundreds of other purposes of
vitamin D so I have additional
information on this but the point is
that when you consume junk Foods you
worsen these subclinical deficiencies
and it could definitely show up in hair
loss so the combination of low vitamin D
not consuming enough of nutrient-dense
foods and eating junk foods can all
worsen your your hair during the winter
so what can we do number one take more
vitamin D number two eat more vegetables
I would recommend eating more brussels
sprouts brussels sprouts are loaded with
sulfur sulfur is great for hair sulfur
is also good to help you make amino
acids which are the protein building
blocks for all proteins including your
hair I would beef up no pun intended
your salads I would start to eat more
avocados and bell peppers which are
loaded with vitamin C you can also add
nutritional yeast to get all your B
vitamins but of course if you're taking
enough vitamin D that's going to help
your microbiome and then seafood can
help provide for all the trace minerals
like selenium zinc iodine iron manganese
as well as the omega-3 fatty acids which
are also necessary for maintaining
healthy hair now to be fully transparent
I actually have hair products I have a
new shampoo and conditioner and I also
have a hair growth oil and so if you
want more information on those products
you can actually check out my website
but if you have not seen my video on how
to make your own vitamin D I put it up
right here check it out
