so there is an unhealthy type of ketosis
okay it's called the classical ketogenic
diet okay now this is used for kids that
have epilepsy to reduce seizures it's
very effective for that but from my
viewpoint it's not healthy long term it
does serve its function of helping the
body get into ketones which is great but
it doesn't provide a lot of nutrition
because there's they don't look at it
from the viewpoint of nutrients they're
giving the person a lot of synthetic
vitamins I wanted to show you a couple
products that they promote using the
classic keto one is called keto Cal okay
and so they're using four grams of fat
to every one gram of protein and carb so
it's really high in fat low in protein
and carb okay now that's fine but look
at the first ingredient hydrogenated soy
oil
well that's GMO okay hydrogenated is a
trans fat it's like a it's like
consuming plastic so that's not healthy
it has whole dry milk refine soybean soy
lecithin corn syrup solids and then a
bunch of synthetic vitamins here's
another one
RC F this is a soy formula base with
iron product soy protein isolates again
GMO safflower oil
it's omega-6 fatty acids soy oil it's
going to be GM L they do have coconut
oil in here and then a bunch of
synthetic vitamins this diet also allows
you to consume margarine again trans
fats so GMO oils malted dextran soy
synthetic vitamins so it's not the
healthy version that I recommend but
when you hear the opposing viewpoint
that keto is dangerous or it does this
or does that they're using this
unhealthy version okay so they're saying
well oh yeah it's gonna cause kidney
stones uric acid and bad breath and when
in fact they're not talking about
healthy ketosis okay they're talking
about the classical ketogenic diet so at
the summit I sat down and I was talking
to someone who goes to all of the keto
summits and the conventions around the
world one of the
Kito conventions that this person went
to was involving just scientists and
medical doctors no one else okay and I
wanted to know what they talked about
they were talking about the research for
epilepsy certain brain disorders certain
genetic disorders but what was
interesting was the fact that at lunch
the everyone was consuming like orange
juice sandwiches like sugary foods and
like why are they doing that well
apparently the scientists and the
medical doctors that went to the
convention don't do key to themselves
they look at it as a treatment or
therapy but not as a lifestyle change
which is interesting so of course I can
see their viewpoint because they
probably weren't introduced to a healthy
version of keto they are basically
introduced to this which is unhealthy
so that makes sense to me that they're
they're probably why would I need that
you know but the benefits of keto go far
beyond just epilepsy weight loss
anti-inflammatory all sorts of wonderful
things that can happen to your body so
in this video I just wanted a
differentiate between the healthy
ketogenic diet and the classical
ketogenic diet completely different
programs thanks for watching
hey guys I want to introduce you to my
new doctor Berg app it's right here it's
I'm really excited about it you need to
download it it's free has a lot of great
data has all my videos it's updated on a
regular basis I also have the audio
version of the videos audio episodes I
also have a mini course that you can
take I also have a button for new
content so you can really know of all
the recent content that I'm downloading
and I also have something called PDF
resources which gives you additional
cool little one-page PDF documents on
all sorts of health things so download
it check it out and tell me what you
think about it and don't forget to give
me a review
it's dr. Berg app
