if we take a look over the last 50
years and evaluate all of the foods that
we've been eating and we have consumed
this one food in a massive amount check
out this graph so on the left here we
have various different types of foods
which I'm hiding right here and we can
see the relative amounts of certain
calories right compared from 1970 to
2014 you can see this one food right
here spiked over for
8,000% that's
8,853 per compared to this food spiked
198% this one
129% and these are quite large but
nothing compared to this one food right
here can you take a wild guess what you
think this food is go ahead and comment
down below and it's not refined white
sugar the amount of this particular
ingredient is consumed by the average
American that equals about 63 lb
most Ultra processed foods have three
basic ingredients the starches that
includes multitran modified food starch
and modified corn
starch you have the sugar which usually
is in form of glucose syrup corn syrup
or beet sugar then you have seed oils
like corn oil and soy oil and canola so
I did not mention this ingredient yet
can you still guess what it is I'll give
you another hint when you consume it
only one organ can break it down and
that is the liver and this ingredient
acts much like alcohol even though it's
not alcohol in other words the body has
to get rid of it and it uses similar
Pathways to break it down and it
produces seven times the glycation
effect and glycation is when you have
the combining of a protein to a sugar
and when you consume it it suppresses
hunger it also depletes your vitamins
and minerals it's probably one of the
most potent uh triggers to metabolic
syndrome a fat liver inflammation can
you guess what it is let's take a look
okay high fructose corn syrup that's
right high fructose corn syrup has
spiked by over
8,000% let's take a look at the next one
corn products that would be the corn
starch that would be the corn oil but
not necessarily high fructose corn syrup
and I do not think this includes the uh
seed oils all right next one is skim
milk has increased by
129% then we get chicken turkey then we
get added fats and
oils vegetables have been going down by
3% butter has been down trining about 8%
and then we have eggs down trending by
21% beef down trending by 29% so there's
a lot of people against beef because
they think it's the problem but it's
been decreasing by almost 30% over this
time period and look at this refined
white sugar has been decreasing or
downtrending by 35% over this time
period so high fructose corn syrup is
very poisonous you need to avoid it it's
hidden in a lot of different foods and
drinks and sodas and other processed
foods you just have to start reading the
labels unfortunately we subsidize corn
so a good portion of the Corn that these
manufacturing companies use from what's
called Dent corn which is not even
edible they're even making milk out of
corn right now I'm not kidding most of
it's GMO which means it's herbicide
tolerant you spray a herbicide on it
like glyphosate and it doesn't die
unfortunately the US is the top producer
of corn and the top consumer of corn
corn has now replaced the consumption of
rice in China and most the corn sold in
the US is sold for animal feeds
unfortunately they don't really use
grass as much as they should in 1930
Farmers would extract about 20 and a
half bushels of corn per acre in
2022 Farmers extract
173 bushels per acre with the Advent of
all the different pesticides and GMOs we
can grow a tremendous amount of product
in a very small area which is not only
not good for the environment but not
good for the soil not good for our
health so as you start to read
ingredients not only avoid the hrus corn
syrup but also the modified food starch
as well as the modified corn starch and
the multidex and the glucose syrup and
the seed oils now if we want to flip to
the absolute best food you should be
eating you should watch this video right
here check it out
