you know you've been lied to about your
food for a very long time you see this
right here this is a
450 mgram tablet what if I were to tell
you that this is actually zero
milligrams of course you're looking at
it but it really doesn't exist these
aren't the droids you're looking for
what would you say I'm crazy right well
this is a loophole that manufacturing
companies use to hide ingredients in
your food and it's called the rounding
rule if something is less than 500 mg
per serving size they don't have to list
it in the nutrition facts let me explain
let's say a product has less than 500
milligrams of trans fats okay per
serving size manufacturing companies can
round down to zero and even say in the
label that it has zero trans fats the
same thing with MSG it's called the
rounding down trick okay and it blows my
mind how they got away with getting that
ped because 500 MGR is not zero you see
if something says sugarfree fat free
sodium free the chances of you reading
the ingredients are pretty slim so this
is just another reason why you need to
start reading the ingredients and
unfortunately when we talk about sugar
there could be a lot of different terms
for sugar there's actually over 200
different words for sugar but the thing
that really kind of gets me is something
called incidental additives ingredients
that have a different function that's
not related to texture flavor or
preservative or they have a a function
of extracting certain things from food
they're called solvents if that
ingredient is less than 5% of the
finished product they don't have to
declare it on the label now this could
be dextrin which is a carbohydrate but
it acts more like a sugar on the
glycemic index molto dein can go up to
180 I mean table sugar is like 74 so
even though it's classified as a complex
carbohydrate it acts way more like a
sugar sometime maltodextrin is just a
filler so a lot of vitamins have this
hidden maltodextrin and you have no idea
if it's in there at the end of this
video I will explain how to identify
maltodextrin but I think the most
dangerous thing that's hidden in your
food is hexane there's hexane residues
in met RX there's also hexane residues
in the kind bars now what's going on
with hexane well hexane is a solvent and
so these products just mentioned involve
soy protein iets this is a very common
protein that they put in bars veggie
burgers plant-based products and they
use heane to extract certain things from
the soybean and so they bathe these
soybeans in a
petrochemical bath of the solvent hexane
which is a byproduct of gasoline
refining there's a few companies that
got sued because they advertised them as
all natural Cliff Bars was sued for this
and so was Kashi who is owned by Kellogg
because you can't have hexane in an
allnatural product especially if
something is certified 100% organic but
hexane is classified as a neurotoxin by
the CDC and as hazardous air pollution
by the EPA of course the soybean
industry will argue that oh yeah hexane
can get evaporated blah blah blah
there's no regulatory body that's
measuring how much hexane we're getting
when we're eating these Foods they might
think that they're getting this clean
product but they're not getting a clean
product and so how these manufacturing
companies use this as an exemption is
they classify them as a processing Aid
and like I said before it could be like
an anti-caking agent but it can also be
a binder and also a lot of the
artificial sweeteners have in them
hidden amounts of actual sugar and
maltodextrin and dextrose which is a
synthetic sugar but because they're
smaller amounts they don't have to list
them this is why it's probably good to
actually get one of those blood sugar
monitoring devices so you can test your
blood sugar after consuming some of
these products like one that I would
really want to test would be this one
bar here first of all it says 20 g of
protein 1 gr of sugar but it has ISO
molto aligo saccharides it's classified
as a fiber but it acts just like a sugar
the other thing you have to be careful
about is when they say no added sugars
right in your mind you're going to feel
better about it like wow good there's no
added sugars but when you read the
ingredients you're going to see that
there might not be added sugars but the
stuff in there definitely is filled with
sugars and you also have to be careful
about anything that says sugar-free or
sugar-free gum but because the serving
size is so small they can use it to
trick you I'm also suspect of anything
that says sugar-free when the carbs are
high as well another trick that they use
with maltodextrin is maltodextrin is
classified as a carbohydrate not as a
sugar even though it acts more like a
sugar and so they can get away with
saying it's sugar-free again if you
check your blood it'll just Jack your
blood sugars way the heck up there
another ingredient I would be very
careful about is corn syrup solids like
wait a second corn syrup solids corn
syrup solids is basically a solid form
of corn syrup so it's the same thing but
it's just in a solid form so it's a
synthetic type of sugar made out of corn
besides gum being in a small quantity
and they can kind of hide a lot of
things in there you also have the
sugar-free non-dairy creamers you put in
your coffee I know what I'm out of town
in a hotel right there's always this
coffee machine and they always have this
yeah non-refrigerated non-dairy creamer
sometimes it's say sugar-free I will not
use that in my coffee even though I need
cream in my coffee I will just drink it
black because I don't trust those
creamers so I have a question for you
what's your thoughts on this 450 mgram
capsule really being zero so now let me
show you a great simple way to detect if
something has hidden starches in it like
mdex corn starch or food starch check
this out this test is to determine if
there are carbohydrates in your
supplements or even your food okay and
primarily I'm going to focus on molto
deum especially in flavors now that
works like this all you need is some
iodine if you combine iodine with a
starch it turns the color blue now if we
take just normal water okay I'm just
going to take water we just take a drop
or two of iodine and just regular water
tap water you can see doesn't turn blue
stays kind of golden yellow but if we
take sem iodine on some wonderful bread
you can see it will turn it blue okay
that's the chemical reaction now if we
take pure maltodextrin for example and
put it in some water right here okay mix
it up put a couple drops of iodine in it
you can see the color blue or purple
okay that's pure multiex now let's take
this other electrolyte powder which is
competitor's brand which has a very
similar formula to mine like a copycat
formula um they state that this is
without sugar or maltodextrin add a
scoop of that and a couple drops of
iodine let's see if it has maltodextrin
in there W turns purple blue apparently
it does all right now let's take my
electrolyte powder let's see if it has
any mult extra in there or carbs
starches I mean okay mix it here let's
put a couple drops of iodine in
there no purple no maltodextrin in fact
let's put some even more iodine in there
see if it eventually turns it purple and
the answer is no it stays yellow gold
and you can detect hidden maltodextrin
and other starches in your supplements
and food
