hi guys Dr bur here in this video I want
to share with you a natural remedy for
depression and bipolar okay now this is
just information for you to do your own
research on um of course check with your
doctor I'm not telling you this is going
to cure any medical illnesses not
telling you to come off your medication
these is just things for you and your
doctor to look at as alternative
Solutions especially uh if it's not
working otherwise okay and it's a remedy
called lithium orotate okay lithium
orate it's very different than the
prescription lithium that you would get
from a pharmacy okay this is a lithium
is a a natural Trace mineral um in the
earth and uh but this is the form that I
would recommend um taking and um it's
also um very effective for other things
too hyper thyroidism not hypo hyper
shingles
pain
OCD
anxiety uh the only only catch 22 is if
if you're already on an SSRI drug or El
chopan which can increase your serotonin
levels uh then just work with your
doctor to when you take this juggle the
other medications so you don't
necessarily raise the serotonin too high
but it's definitely something I would
recommend as a natural solution uh from
some of these drugs out there okay
thanks for
watching hey if you're enjoying my
videos press the Subscribe button below
and I will keep you updated on the
future events thank you so much
