this is an updated video on all of the
myths about water because I found some
more data about water that is just
utterly ridiculous okay these ideas that
people have in their mind let's talk
about the first one by the time you're
thirsty it's too late you're already
dehydrated that is utterly ridiculous I
don't know where people got that idea
but it's kind of like you could say that
about eating by the time you're hungry
it's too late you're starving your body
has all these different perceptions
thirst is one of them and uh your body
will let you know when it's thirsty I
mean I don't know who's pushing this
idea that we can't go by thirst anymore
we have to drink before we're thirsty
our bodies have the perception of thirst
okay unless we have brain damage a tumor
in our brain maybe some type of
autoimmune uh condition to our brain or
it could be that you're just not having
enough salt in your diet okay and so
your blood is very
diluted and you're going to get rid of
the sensation of thirst if you don't
have enough salt but you should really
go by your thirst just drink when you're
thirsty all right next one is you should
drink enough water until your urine is
clear your urine should not be clear it
should be slightly straw color or yellow
that's the normal color of urine if your
urine is too clear you're too diluted
now if your urine is too dark okay that
also doesn't mean you need to drink more
water that means that you might have a
liver issue because the liver has
something to do with getting rid of that
pigment now if your urine is a little
bit foamy it could be more of a kidney
problem or it could be you're consuming
a little bit too much protein all right
the next one you need to keep drinking
so you're going to be full so you'll eat
less like the water's going to stay in
your body right drinking more water is
not going to help you lose weight now
there is data that shows that if you
replace your sodas with water yes of
course you're going to lose weight your
consuming less sugar water but the water
itself doesn't help you burn fat all
right the next one drinking more water
will flush out your toxins most of the
toxins are fat soluble they're stuck in
the fat cells you're not going to detox
by drinking a lot of water it's not
going to happen all right next one is
water will prevent dehydration well yes
you do need water for hydration of
course but you also need electrolytes
and sea salt which is actually
electrolyte as as well because what's
going to happen is you're going to drink
all this water you're going to dilute uh
a mineral called sodium there's a
condition for this is called
hyponatremia that means low sodium in
the blood you can get swelling edema in
your brain cramping you're going to feel
weak you're going to get a headache
you're going to get irritable and you're
going to have cognitive problems and you
could even go into a coma let me tell
you a real life situation uh even in my
practice I've had people come in that
had high blood pressure they're on a
diuretic okay which by the way um lowers
their sodium they're told to drink a lot
more water so now we're really diluting
uh that sodium they're doing sodas
they're doing tea and on top of that
they're exercising and they're sweating
and they're getting all these side
effects so anytime someone is trying to
hydrate yes think fluids but also think
sodium as well but definitely don't
overdo it drink when you're thirsty your
body will tell you when you're thirsty
if you listen to it if you're exercising
if it's hot outside if you're sweating
if you just did some aauna treatment or
you drank a lot of alcohol you need to
drink a lot more water if you're at risk
for a kidney stone drink at least 2 and
a half liters of fluid a day so again
I'm not against water but I am against
drinking massive amounts of water when
you create other imbalances another
point about uh fluids is that drinking a
lot of water right before you eat and
you could drink right before eating it's
not going to be a problem but if someone
has
let's say they have acid indigestion
okay they have heartburn and they get
bloating it could mean that they don't
have enough stomach acids it might not
be the greatest idea to drink a lot of
water right before you eat especially if
you have those symptoms and I already
talked about this but if you have kidney
stones you want to consume at least two
and a half liters of fluid every single
day preventing this super concentrated
urine um if you have gout uric acid
Crystal
one thing you can do is you can add a
little bit of baking soda to the water
to alkalize it which would then cause
the gout symptoms to reduce now if you
have kidney stones you can add lemon
water because the citrates will bind
with the oxalates and prevent the
formation of oxalates connecting with
calcium now if you go on the low carb
ketogenic diet okay and you're not
consuming enough salt and you're
drinking a lot of water that can throw
off things as well you might feel weaker
you might have what's known as the keto
flu or keto fatigue when really you just
need more salt the next thing that you
hear drinking more water is really good
for the kidney because it keeps the
kidneys clean and functioning there's
this idea that if you keep flushing the
kidneys they'll be purified no that's
not true you're just causing the kidneys
to work a little bit harder it's not
going to clean out the kidneys by
drinking more water
the kidneys filter the blood and uh they
recycle a lot of things in your blood
but drinking more water doesn't
necessarily clean out the kidneys
there's no data that says that's true
when you consume certain foods like
vegetables for example 80 to 95% of
those vegetables are water you are
getting a good amount of water from your
vegetables even meat is between 60 and
65% water and when you are burning fat
and you're generating water because when
you oxidize fat you generate water and
CO2 in the mitochondria in fact you'll
generate a little more water than the
fat that you're burning because of the
oxygen so in other words let's say for
example you burn one pound of fat you're
going to make a little more than one
pound of water it sounds incredible but
it's true but please don't rely just on
that water and then it's okay to get
most of your water in certain parts of
the day but uh I wouldn't necessarily uh
ever force yourself to drink too much
because the water intake is an
individual thing and there's so many
variables and what one person needs
might not be good for another person as
far as thirst goes your thirst can go up
if you're a diabetic your thirst could
also go up if you have too much calcium
in the blood but both of those
conditions diabetes as well as too much
calcium in the blood it's called hyper
calcium yeah um can also cause excessive
urination so that's probably why you're
thirsty so I hope you have a little more
knowledge about um drinking water if you
have not seen my video on carbonated
water I think you might enjoy that I put
it up right here check it
out
