I'd like to share with you the number
one absolute worst food that you could
consume for your liver especially if
you're concerned about developing a
fatty liver and hint it's not sugar it's
not carbs and this particular ingredient
is not even high fructose corn syrup
even though sugar starch and high
fructose corn syrup is really bad for
the liver there's something much worse
now the big problem with the liver is
that there's very few symptoms that
occur with the liver I had a liver
problem for probably I don't know 22
years I didn't know it was a liver
problem now I did have some symptoms but
I didn't connect the dots a lot of my
symptoms were my right shoulder right
through this trap right here and right
back into on the back of the scapula and
then also right underneath my right rib
cage like right here was just always
just
completely you know painful sore tight
and Bloated for years I didn't know what
that was of course this problem down
here was my bile duct like the little
tubes that connect to the gallbladder
but that's part of the liver because the
liver makes bile so I had this problem
for a very long time and that's why I do
a lot of videos in the liver because I
completely reversed it and that's one
big myth that I want to talk about cuz
because people think that once you have
a liver problem you always have a liver
problem absolutely not the liver is so
robust and so rugged it's the one of the
only organs that can completely 100%
regenerate so that's one myth another
myth is that um the liver is filled with
toxins it's very toxic that's not true
the liver
detoxifies
poisons it doesn't store poisons the fat
cells store poisons the liver gets rid
of the toxins once the liver gets to the
point where it starts developing scar
tissue and getting into therosis the
risk of getting liver cancer goes way up
the treatment that the medical
profession has is not very good it's
just like you know liver transplant get
on the list and there's not a lot of
people that have healthy livers to give
you you're playing this waiting game
hopefully you'll be able to survive to
the point where you can get a li then if
you get a liver you have to take
anti-rejection
medication like prazone now you got to
deal with those side effects The Simple
Solution is you want to prevent a liver
problem now there is a very interesting
study on rats that I want to tell you
and there's three groups of rats and in
the first group they fed lard and
alcohol to these rats okay lard is pig
fat second group they fed beef fat it's
called tallow and alcohol to these rats
and then in the third group they fed
them corn oil and alcohol now what's
interesting is the first group The lard
and the alcohol had minimal damage to
the livers and then this test were
testing for like liver damage and then
the development into a fatty liver
because there was alcohol involved I
kind of wish they would have added one
more group with this tesp like a group
of mice that only consumed alcohol just
to see what would happen but anyway the
first group that had pig fat lard and
alcohol they had minimal damage to the
liver the next group with the taow beef
fat in alcohol they had virtually no
damage to the liver what does that mean
that means that beef fat could
potentially be protective to the liver
what one idea that's interesting it's
actually fascinating especially since I
consume a lot of beef fat in my diet and
I don't seem to have a lot of liver
problems anymore but then the Third
group of rats that were fed corn oil and
alcohol guess what happened to them not
good severe liver damage is the most
damage of all three groups the worst
food or ingredient will call it for a
fatty liver or a liver in general is
seed oils seed oils are very
inflammatory they're very damaging
especially the way that they're
processed right here you can see see
this right here now what's interesting
about this seed oil right here you see
these pictures of the vegetable oils
because that's what it's called
vegetable oil to me that's like false
advertising because you're having
vegetables on there thinking that that
oil is coming from vegetables when it's
not this is like soy oil I mean I think
just a matter of time before these guys
get in trouble with advertising because
it's not vegetable oil but the specific
type of fat that's Omega 6
that were getting way too much like an
average person in the US gets between 25
to 30% of their calories it's called
linolic acid and so lard pig fat has
about 2.5% of it linolic acid taow beef
fat only has 7% linolic acid that's like
less than 1% but corn oil has like
56.6% lenic acid so it's this heated
linolic acid in the seed oils that are
oxidized or damaged to the point where
it can create a lot of free radical
damage and like a rusting out effect on
your cells especially in the liver the
nervous system and then from that you
get a lot of byproducts I mean I've done
several videos on this topic if you
haven't seen those you can check them
out but you want to get these oils out
of your diet big time our diet diet is
composed of way too much of it 25 to 30%
of it uh it's highly inflammatory it
also gets lodged and stuck in our cells
and our fat cells in the membranes
around our nervous system for two to
three years yeah so when you eat sugar
for example you'll burn it off pretty
fast but when you consume something like
this it gets lodged in the bond and gets
stuck in there we can't even use it as
energy so what are we using it as well
cell membranes
hormones I mean it's going right into
our tissues and creating all sorts of
inflammation and especially inflammation
in the liver which then leads to insulin
resistance and you should just start
reading the ingredients on things and
when you go to restaurants right just
ask what type of oil are you frying my
food in I I would avoid anything fried
at any fast food restaurant or any
restaurant I wouldn't not consume them
because you're just getting more of the
soy oil the corn oil maybe canola or
cotton seed oil you want to avoid that
for at least you know two to three years
to get it out of the system create a
demonstration on yourself how good you
could feel if you actually were to
replace that crappy uh oil with
something healthier you want to start
replacing with omega3 fatty acids that
would be like the fish oils the collor
oil things like that that oil is
anti-inflammatory they're not only using
this severely damaged oxidative oil but
they're reheating it over and over and
over up to 100 or more times I mean can
you imagine the amount of byproducts
that are given off and the amount of
oxidative stress that's creating for
your cells so number
one remove the seed oils from the diet
start reading ingredients number two
start adding in more omega-3 fatty acids
number three start decreasing
the amount of animal foods like chicken
turkey you know even beef that are grain
fed and even eggs are fed grains unless
you can find a an egg that is higher in
omega-3 fatty acids the point is that
you want to start cutting down these
seed oils and high omega-6 fats from
your diet and replace this with
grass-fed grassfish beef grass-fed lamb
grass fed goat grass-fed Buffalo things
like that and I also don't think it
would hurt if you also added cruciferous
vegetables in there like cabbage
sauerkraut things like that because
that's really good for the liver as well
now that you know the number one worst
food for the liver let's talk about what
foods are really good for the liver and
for that information I put this video up
right here check it out
