hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about an interesting Trace mineral
called malanum okay it's hard to
pronounce but it's Mala num so if you're
doing some type of detox and you're
trying to get rid of your candida you
definitely want to have this Trace
mineral to help facilitate that because
it's it's a great natural way to um not
make you feel bad but just uh clean up
some of the garbage that's basically
dying off and polluting your body and
it's also good to help break down
sulfite in your body there's a lot of
people that are sensitive to sulfites
sulfites are in wine especially white
wine compared to red wine it's in
preservatives it's in dried fruit it's
in a lot of foods so if you have a
sensitivity to sulfites this is what you
need and it also helps prevent the
buildup of uric acid which eventually
turns into gout and it's found a
different place in the body especially
the teeth that's why it's good to
prevent cavities because it makes the
teeth really strong but if you're
deficient in this Trace mineral your
your risk factor goes up for esophageal
cancer so yes you can get it in certain
foods it's higher in green beans eggs
sunflower seeds and cucumbers but I'll
recommend that you get it from the hell
food store simply because we don't know
uh the soils that these Foods were grown
on even if they had this Trace mineral
so all you need is a little bit you
don't need a lot okay and you don't need
a long-term dose of it so just take a
little bit see if it can help you all
right thanks for watching hey I
appreciate your attention and if if
you're enjoying these videos go ahead
and subscribe and I will definitely keep
you updated on future events Live Events
and webinars that we're going to do very
soon
