hey guys it's Dr Berg here in this video
we're going to talk about memory
Alzheimer's and the insulin connection
now this is my opinion but I believe
that any problem with memory like going
in a room you can't remember where you
went in there uh short-term memory
long-term membrane dementia uh
Alzheimer's is related to a starvation
of glucose in the brain I mean glucose
is the primary fuel for the brain but it
can't get in there if the if the key
doesn't allow it to go in there and
that's the insulin connection so there's
a condition called insulin resistance
what does that mean it means that the
insulin in certain parts of your body is
too high over a long period of time and
your body starts to resist or block
insulin and Insulin allows the glucose
to go in the cells allows the glucose to
go in the brain allows the glucose to go
in the muscle so basically your
brain despite how much insulin is being
pumped out from the pancreas is not
going into the brain so you have a
situation you have low insulin and low
glucose in the brain that's going to
give your body feedback in the feedback
loops back to the pancreas to make more
insulin so an average person with
insulin resistance has five to seven
times more insulin than someone that is
normal okay so that creates another
situation called amalo deposits now what
is amalo deposits it's interesting
because Alzheimer patients have this
unique unique little fibrous tissue in
the brain it's a protein fibrous tissue
called amals and that is a major
complication significant complication to
insulin therapy or if you have too much
insulin so that's another connection all
right and also they found on pet scans
which basically scan the body and look
for places uh sugar metabolism in people
with um Alzheimer you have a low sugar
or glucose metabolism so basically your
brain is starving of glucose all right
that's what's really causing memory
problems on a physical level so this
explains why you crave sweets because
the brain is not getting glucose so
basically the worst thing you can do is
start eating sweets all right so here's
what I would recommend or what I would
do if I had any of these issues number
one cut out the sugar completely all the
hidden sugars that means the Breads and
the pastas and the cereals and the juice
and even the fruit at this time as well
as alcohol um and even yogurt has a bit
it's high in sugar so what you have to
do is start reading the labels and make
sure that you focus on the sugar grams
try to get them less than one gram okay
that's step one number two the other
problem that people um have with insulin
resistance is that every time you eat
you spike insulin so what you want to do
is you want to have less meals so do two
or three meals no snacking in between
because you're going to spike insulin
the whole goal is to reduce insulin to
allow this insulin to heal so you can
start absorbing more uh fuel to the
brain your body your brain can convert
protein into glucose or even fat dietary
fat into glucose but it can also run on
ketones which is an alternative fuel
source and that comes from cutting down
the dietary sugar in the body your body
switches over the fat burning makes
ketones brain loves it okay um so you
have number one you have um cut out the
sugar cut out the hidden sugars have
less meals no snacking okay make sure
that you're um another really cool tip
is to have appleid of vinegar in your
water why because appleid of vinegar
reduces insulin resistance it actually
helps improve that situation and these
are just tips so all I'm saying is you
go ahead and try this and see if it
works for you and post your comments
below I'll see you in the next video
