so one of the things that people have to
realize that when they consume food they
never consume food as one type of food
they're always combining things so in
this video I want to talk about the
combination of combining fats with carbs
versus fat with protein what would
create more of a problem okay
so unfortunately when you combine fats
with carbs you do spike insulin
significantly compared with consuming
just carbohydrates by itself in other
words when you add fat to the
carbohydrate you exaggerate this spike
in insulin okay and I'm talking about
like a donut deep fried and grease
talking about ice cream that you would
get at the store with all the sugar and
the fat together that's a massive spike
in insulin okay so so fat does not
reduce your insulin amounts it might
slow down the absorption but it still
spikes insulin okay now if we combine
fat with protein on the other hand it
does not have nearly as much insulin
response it's a low level insulin
response and that's because just
anything you eat will increase insulin
so this fat with protein is much better
than consuming fat with carbs okay I'm
not talking about fat and vegetable
carbs I'm talking about like sugar carbs
things like that so when we're talking
about fat plus protein we're talking
about brie cheese you know other types
of dairy meat versus the low fat meat
have the fatty or meat eggs with the egg
yolk and the protein so that's a good
thing to do this is bad and one last
point when you combine carbs with
protein this combination right here it's
very similar to this combination right
here so in other words you don't want to
combine carbohydrates or sugar with
protein like lot of those protein bars
because you're going to spike insulin
okay so this is your safe bet right here
fat plus protein and a lot of vegetables
alright thanks for watching hey if
you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quince
