hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about evaluation this is
another example of how to evaluate
evaluation means to analyze the data to
find a reason why something is occurring
so this is a 71-year-old female she gave
me all her data and we're going to go
through each piece of data and just kind
of go up and down and see if we can make
sense out of it see if it relates see if
it Associates for the reason of finding
the root cause um typically the mistake
of evaluation is to treat effects
individually and not try to understand
the effects so number one she craves
sweets that could come from a low
potassium that can come from an insulin
problem um many things but here's number
two drinks one and a half gallon of milk
a week so that kind of jumps out that's
a lot of milk she drinks so and then we
have urinary frequency um that can come
from menopausal symptoms it can also
come from other things which I'll get to
uh spider veins that is a um it's a
vitamin C deficieny but you can't fix it
by taking a scorc acid that's what
people think is Vitamin C that's just
the antioxidant portion you have to have
the whole vitamin C complex uh
especially the um B flavonoids okay so
that's because bof flavonoids that's
part of the vitamin C complex helps to
maintain the Integrity of the vessel and
the collagen but we'll come back to that
okay takes vitamin D and calcium
probably because she has
osteoporosis but she has bone pain here
history of kidney stones that's a
calcium issue it could be other things
too a pH issue uh Bright Lights bother
her um that is a vitamin A deficiency so
again I'm kind of thinking out loud as
we go through this uh feet fall asleep
all right that can be peripheral
neuropathy that's like a diabetic thing
with a lot of insulin issues or it could
be a circulation issue and there's other
causes as well and then we have anxiety
osteoporosis high blood pressure okay
hot flashes night sweats mood swings
hysterctomy 1995 fibroids and then
choose pear shaped so this is estrogen
stiffness and terrible sleep so so
here's the first thing I'm going to do
I'm going to scan and kind of see if two
of these or more of these start
connecting uh one of the things that
stands out is this milk thing right here
now that's a lot of calcium so she's
getting a ton of calcium she's taking
calcium okay and vitamin D increases the
absorption of calcium by 22 times so it
increases calcium in the blood okay and
then but she still has
osteoporosis all right now one of the
symptoms of falling asleep uh or
numbness in the feet
is something called
hyper
calcemia what does that mean it means a
lot of calcium in the blood too much
calcium in the blood so now this one
does relate to high calcium that's
interesting so that's one thing that it
could be more associated with because
this aligns with that now taking vitamin
D and calcium that also aligns with too
much calcium
anxiety is another symptom of hyper
calcemia high blood pressure now that
could come from many things could be
adrenal but let's pretend that there's
high calcium in the arteries well what
guess what that's going to do it's going
to calcify the
arteries arteriosclerosis plaing in the
arteries boom that relates to
hypercalcemia uh urinary frequency would
also relate to
hypercalcemia kidneys Stones would
relate to hyper
calcemia okay so now one thing about
hypercalcemia there's high calcium in
the blood but it doesn't mean that it's
going into the bone so of course she has
osteoporosis because it's not being
directed to the Bone but bone pain is a
symptom of hyper calcemia you could look
it up so here's what I'm seeing that
she's having she has a lot too much
calcium when you take vitamin D and I
didn't ask her how much she's taking but
if she's taking a lot of vitamin D and a
lot of calcium uh she's going to get
symptoms of heart problems because that
calcium is going to plug everything up
what what she's missing and what kind of
stands out for me um is something to
direct the calcium into the bone and
that's vitamin K2 so vitamin K2 is what
I see that she's missing the most of um
one thing I noticed that I didn't write
down here is she's on a she's been on a
low fat diet for years well Guess What
vitamin K2 is it's a fat soluble vitamin
it comes from butter grass-fed butter
grass-fed cheese grass-fed um chickens
with the egg yolk grass-fed beef so K2
is what she's missing so that's one
thing that I'm going to probably
recommend to start taking this
immediately and stop drinking this milk
and the calcium start taking the K2 to
start to drive all this calcium into the
bone from the blood into the bone that's
the most important thing that she needs
help with um
now vitamin
K2 also is a fat Cy of vitamin so the
other thing that I would probably want
to get more data on is number two uh
does she have a gallbladder does she
have n bile
because another thing that's in the back
of my mind if she has bright light uh
problems like at night that's a vitamin
A deficiency that's a fat cyal vitamin
so I'm like why does she have that
that's I don't know why that is so I
started asking about the gallbladder if
she has enough bile because it could be
if she doesn't have enough bile that's
that could be why she's not absorbing
any fat CYO vitamin especially if she's
been in a history of a lowfat diet so we
might want to give her little bios salts
uh to absorb the vitamin fat cyal
vitamins and get the K2 in there so she
can start to drive out this calcium and
then work with her doctor to uh adjust
this medication because if she didn't
have calcium in the arteries the blood
pressure is going to come Down the Bones
will start getting solid these symptoms
will start improving so that's the thing
that's the most important uh hot flashes
night sweats loot swings now this is
interesting she's had these symptoms
since
1975 after she had the fibroid out so
the other thing that I'm thinking
fibroid if we take it back earlier
fibroids um are a tumor and tumors grow
with various hormones that are called
anabolic hormones they make things grow
uh two of the hormones is
estrogen and Insulin so I would probably
ask her history of her diet if it was
like a lot of sugar in the past if it
wasn't I would ask her about estrogen
and I already know based on her history
that she's been on premim which is an
estrogen U replacement for a many many
many years okay so that's probably why
she has the fibroid and then she removed
it but see when you take out when you do
a hysterctomy you have a backup organ
that has to then do double the work and
that's the adrenals so these symptoms
are really adrenal related so she really
has two issues that have to be dealt
with but this stuff here if supported
with the adrenal support those will
probably improve uh and then of course
the parir shape that's an estrogen thing
and then one last thing well two things
one is stiffness well that's that's
calcium in the in the soft tissues
terrible sleep well if you're not going
to get calcium you're not going to be
able to relax again that like everything
here aligns with this one problem so
that's pretty much how I evaluate and
how other people should evaluate and not
just jump and start treating everything
separately all right so I'll see you in
the next video
