why is it that the average person is
consuming a very specific type of oil on
a regular basis not just cooking with
their food but on their food as well
this oil is not just consumed at home on
a daily basis but every time you go to a
restaurant nearly every single
restaurant is putting gobs of this oil
on your food when you go to the grocery
store over 70% of those foods have this
oil it comes in a clear bottle you can
open it you can Expos it to air it
doesn't need to be refrigerated
unfortunately this oil is vegetable oil
which by the way is not even vegetables
let's just call it what it is it's seed
oils seed oils are so processed with
super high Heats over 400° Fen they use
chemical solvents to extract the oils
out if they didn't deodorize it it would
have a really bad taste and a bad smell
and this is just basically adding more
heat and by the way when you add heat to
a lot of these oils you developed all
sorts of toxic byproducts like trans
fats there's actually nine other
compounds that are very toxic that are
produced by heating these seed oils not
to mention almost every single one of
these seed oils is genetically modified
there's going to be traces of an
herbicide called glyphosate just because
an oil is deodorized doesn't mean you're
getting rid of the rancidity or the
oxidation it's more like hiding these
toxicities because now you can't smell
or taste it it's kind of like just clear
one of the toxic components which is BHA
is a possible human carcinogen the other
ones can affect immune system the
nervous system and your liver I just
need to help understanding why are we
using this oil why is it considered
heart healthy if you watch some of my
other videos gross generally recognized
as safe is really something that the
industry itself can put that stamp of
approval they can do their own studies
which are not independent if you look at
vegetable oil
uh you'll see this argument that oh
vegetable oils are fine as long as you
don't heat it because if you go to a
fast food restaurant they're going to
reheat it like a hundred times which is
going to make it really really really
toxic they'll say if you don't heat it
and you put it on your food it'll be
fine it's already been heated to over
400° it's already been manipulated this
fragile oil has now become uh degraded
and starting to become destroyed it's
just bizarre how the whole thing flipped
right they made saturated fats the bad
guys and unsaturated fats the good guys
which is absolutely positively a big fat
lie here's the problem that I have with
seed oils if you look at almost every
chronic disease out there all of these
diseases involve one common denominator
and that is inflammation why the heck
would anyone want to consume even in a
drop of this rancid highly inflammatory
oil I believe that these vegetable oils
are the most inflammatory thing that you
can consume think about what they do to
your cells they're creating damage what
this oil does to our bodies is not
necessarily convert it to fuel a lot of
it's stored in the fat cell and it's
going to make that fat cell very sick we
have a lot of membranes through our
whole body and to detoxify vegetable
oils from our membranes it takes
literally a year and a half to two years
by just not eating them no wonder why
the number one selling drug in the world
is Humera which is an anti-inflammatory
truck why do you think that is because
we have way too much inflammation I'm
excited about a new product we just
released which is our zinc product it's
a zinc product with magnesium with
vitamin D3 as well as selenium this is a
great product to help boost the immune
system and to support healthy skin and
hair added vitamin B6 I also added
copper and in each capsule we have 30
Mig of zinc to maximize
bioavailability what type of seed oils
are we're talking about we're talking
about soy oil corn oil sunflower canola
cotton seed but the most dangerous seed
oil of all of them is the cotton seed
oil this is the oil that produces the
most toxicity it has the highest amount
of omega-6 fatty acids making it very
inflammatory and they hide it in a lot
of animal feeds which ends up in the
animal and ends up indirectly in our
body anytime you have inflammation
you're going to have a lack of oxygen
cancer thrives in an area that's either
inflamed and or doesn't have oxygen it
triggers cancer to grow more this
inflammation can also directly cause
insulin resistance which a lot of people
have as well not to mention it's just
accumulating and it's it's shortening
your lifespan and it's behind a lot of
inflammatory conditions that actually
start either in the artery it might
start in the brain it might start
somewhere in the body that turns into a
bigger problem later in life if you ask
someone what are some things to be
healthy well have lean meats avoid
saturated fats but in reality saturated
fats were never the bad guy saturated
fats are very very stable there's
actually not a lot of saturated fats in
junk food it's mostly the unsaturated
fatty acids you do not want to use
vegetable oils at all in the diet if you
have it in the house I would take them
out bring them in the garage and use
them to lubricate different car parts or
certain mechanical things that require
lubrication that would be the best use
of them they're toxic you do not want to
cook with them either if you cook with
them it's going to be worse because it
creates more of these byproducts that
create more damage what do we want to
replace Theos with well something like
this extra virgin olive oil something
high quality I use this in a vinegarette
on all my salads you can cook with olive
oil it's not the perfect solution if
you're going to use high Heats I
recommend something like coconut oil
this can actually handle a lot of heat
or I will use Cary gold butter or a
similar type of butter you can also use
ghee it's clarified butter they take out
some of the protein that way when you
heat it up you won't get the smoking or
anything that happens with cooking the
protein if you can find something like
this red palm oil that is organic
unrefined red palm oil it's going to be
a lot better because it's not damaged
it's not processed and you can use this
just like you would use coconut oil but
you can actually put it in your food
another thing that has a lot of seed
oils is mayonnaise and I like mayonnaise
in my food you want to find a mayonnaise
like this you just need to read the
label this has avocado oil which is a
lot better than soy oil and then
filtered water egg yolks organic whole
eggs this is awesome this is a great
mayonnaise okay but even some of the
ones that say it has avocado oil or even
olive oil if you read them you'll see
that the second ingredient or the third
ingredient or the first ingredient is
either soy or canola oil or some oil
another good fat to use in your food is
very Savory Tallow fat that is basically
beef fat and long ago McDonald used to
fry their french fries in taow
definitely to give it a lot more flavor
lard pig fat is another fat that some
people use you just want to find a high
quality lard that lard is great to cook
in because it really makes your food
taste incredible it's a super stable oil
it's not going to go rany the best thing
to do is not to necessarily fry anything
or eat any deep fried fried foods at all
that would be the ideal situation the
air fryer we use one of those works
great you can simulate fried food in
that very easily with the right uh
ingredients and the right breading so
you're not using actual wheat breading
you're using some other sources like
crushed up pork rinds we can use it as
breading and then you put that on
chicken with certain seasoning and you
put that in the air fryer amazing this
heart healthy seed oil is actually very
damaging to your heart you don't want to
eat it get it out of the house and make
sure they don't hide the seed oil in the
food thanks for watching and I will see
you in the next video
