today we're going to talk about a very
fascinating relationship between vitamin
D and zinc the majority of the
population on this planet has a vitamin
D deficiency but what many don't realize
is that the importance of having enough
zinc to allow vitamin D to work let's
just pretend this is the receptor and uh
you also have zinc so in order for this
receptor to receive vitamin D you need
zinc okay zinc is essential if you have
a deficiency of zinc the vitamin D
receptor will not accept vitamin D so
many people don't just have a vitamin D
deficiency they also have a zinc
deficiency so let's just talk a little
bit more about zinc zinc is the second
most abundant Trace mineral on this
planet and the first one is iron so zinc
is really important not just for vitamin
D but for about 2800 different proteins
and if you're deficient in zinc you can
pretty much predict the person is going
to have a vitamin D deficiency and so if
you're exhibiting certain vitamin D
deficiencies let's say for example your
immune system is weak or you have low
back pain or you're depressed or you
have high blood pressure and you're
taking vitamin D yet you really need
zinc then vitamin D is just not going to
work so what does a zinc deficiency look
like well they can lose their taste or
their smell they can have low
testosterone uh they can have problems
with diarrhea they can have problems
with alopecia where they lose their hair
they can have various inflammatory
problems with their skin they can have
vision problems even develop an ulcer
this is why zinc is really good for
Digestive ulcers as well as inflammation
but another really important function
with zinc is the immune system right so
if you're a deficient in zinc you're
very susceptible to having problems with
infections and viruses invading the body
if your zinc is really really low you
can even develop what's called thymus
atrophy where the thymus gland which is
a gland right on top of your heart it's
a training camp for your tea cells your
immune cells and so without enough zinc
that thing shrinks it becomes atrophy so
both zinc and vitamin D are really
really important for the immune system
even inside your immune system there are
receptors for both zinc and vitamin D so
in other words there's different parts
of your body that can activate Vitamin D
from the inactive to the active form
well your immune system also does it as
well it'll take the inactive vitamin D
and convert it into the active vitamin D
with the help of zinc and that active
form of vitamin D is so important in
your immune system it not only moderates
or controls or manages the immune system
but it also protects like overreactions
of the immune system like a cyto kind
storm an anaphylactic shock something
that's out of control vitamin D is also
important in regulating whether someone
develops an autoimmune disease or not
you even have the transformation from a
a monoy to a macras which which the
macrophages are basically just bigger
immune cells like Pacman go in there and
start eating up bacteria in order for a
monoy to convert into a maccrage you
need this active form of vitamin D which
is dependent on zinc now yes you can
take a supplement with zinc just make
sure you also have some copper in there
you have the right balance and you have
other trace minerals but let me just
kind of go through the foods that are
high in zinc oysters Lobster shrimp
liver as well as red meat which
interesting because if you look at all
the different organs that zinc is stored
in your muscle is at the top of the list
nearly 50% of all the zinc in your body
is stored in your muscles so when you
eat animal muscle protein you can get a
really good source of zinc now let's
talk about what can cause a zinc
deficiency okay well number one it's not
consuming things high in zinc uh number
two it's Fates Fates is a chemical in
grains it's in legumes which tend to
bind and block the absorption of certain
minerals including zinc this is why many
many children in different parts of the
world um because they're consuming
cereal as their main calories and they
develop a lot of problems especially
with diara which is very dangerous
because you could die when you have
chronic diarrhea you can lose all your
minerals especially the electrolytes to
the heart and as a side note um zinc is
one of the most common deficiencies in
pregnancy so it's so important for a
pregnant woman to eat healthy and have a
variety of foods not necessarily to do
intermittent fasting or anything like
that but eat the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet which includes a lot of
animal protein fish things like that
there's another condition called CLE
cell anemia which just has a lot of
complications a lot of problems but if
the person is taking zinc they have a
lot less complications apparently in CLE
cell anemia the person is usually always
deficient in zinc there's a higher zinc
demand and there's more zinc being
excreted through the urine remember zinc
is involved in 2800 different proteins
throughout the body so as you can see
the importance of zinc in preventing a
vitamin D deficiency and on top of that
vitamin D also allows zinc to be
transported through the body so they're
both dependent on each other and zinc is
also important for other vitamins too
like the receptor for vitamin A and also
the receptor for cortisol
which is the stress hormone in another
video I talked about the importance of
magnesium with vitamin D if you have not
seen that video very important I put
that up right here check it
out
