hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the power of
maganese for herniated discs and stica
pain and low back pain okay maganese is
a trace mineral that's involved in
certain enzymes that help you strengthen
ligaments when you're deficient in
manganese you have weak muscles soft
bones weak ligaments body aches and even
skeletal deformations so if you have the
here's the spinal column for example you
have vertebrae you have a disc in
between and then the ligament is the
thing that keeps the the disc from
bulging out so if this ligament is weak
it can bulge out into the spinal column
and cause all sorts of pain so taking
manganese can help strengthen that
ligament how do you get maganese it's
from leafy greens vegetables nuts
especially peans or cinnamon okay if you
want to take a supplement take the
chelated version Don't just get the
elemental maganese because that's that's
metallic and it's toxic okay you want to
get a chelated which means it's combined
with an amino acid it's real easy in the
body and the body can absorb it a lot
better all right so go ahead and try
this and put your comments
below you I just wanted to take a moment
out to thank you for your amazing
feedback that you guys are giving me
it's just mind-blowing the success is
the wins I created a link down below so
you can actually type out your full
success story and if you have a before
and after with weight loss that would be
awesome and if you don't have a success
with weight but other things just put an
image of yourself and your personal
success story and I would love to read
it and also share it with others so I
want to just thank you in advance for
doing that but there's a link down below
fill it out and I can't wait to read it
