[Music]
the word cruciferous comes from the
Latin word cruxs meaning cross eating
cruciferous vegetables is a healthy
choice the family of cruciferous
vegetables includes bok choy broccoli
brussels sprouts cabbage cauliflower
radish kale mustard greens and Water
Crest Cal is a Powerhouse of the
cruciferous vegetables it basically has
tremendous amounts of vitamin A it's
loaded with vitamin C vitamin K it's
actually quite tasty if you mix this
with different vegetables and you can
actually cut these you can eat the stem
all the way down here eat the whole
thing and it's actually extremely
healthy for you so we have the different
cabbages we have the red cabbage and the
white cabbage and you got to make sure
it's raw when you eat it or slightly
steamed and definitely never microwave
your vegetables so this is
broccoli
broccoli has unique properties um
there's been many many many studies that
show that broccoli sprouts are even more
nutritious than the adult broccoli
however the actual adult broccoli is
very very healthy to eat as well for
many many different reasons from Vitamin
K Vitamin C uh lots of minerals but it
is loaded with lots of vitamin A just
like the uh Cale and the
Cabbage to fully appreciate the benefits
of cruciferous vegetables we must first
understand how environmental pollutants
affect our bodies
the long-term effects of such things as
pesticides insecticides herbicides and
fungicides were not well understood or
even anticipated when first introduced
we now know these chemicals along with
heavy metals and solvents can be toxic
to the body in that they have the
potential to mimic hormones alt together
we call these toxins endocrine
disruptors today we find them everywhere
in our water supply soils and even in
the food we eat
the endocrine system is a group of
glands which regulate hormones
responsible for reproduction fertility
digestion sleep menstrual cycles
metabolism in other words nearly every
physiological action and reaction in the
body the hormones are many chemical
Communications which travel from glands
through the blood to various tissues and
organs endocrine disruptors have the
capacity to block mimic and alter
hormone Communications which in turn can
cause a a wide range of reproductive
Developmental and growth problems Dr
Theo korne one of the world's leading
authorities on endocrine disrupting
chemicals greatly contributed to the
endocrine disruptor hypothesis in her
book our stolen future Dr Colborne
States in her book that these
environmental chemicals can create
effects on our bodies in concentrations
of on tenth of a trillionth of a gram in
other words we are not talking about
parts per million or parts per billion
we are talking parts per trillion
infinitesimal
amounts question is how can our bodies
get rid of these
toxins the liver one of the largest
glands in the body is the main organ for
detoxification detoxify means to remove
toxic matter and microorganisms
including funguses bacteria viruses and
parasites toxins are poisons the liver
does an incredible job of removing
poisons from our body
however the liver can get overloaded in
attempting to deal with so many
excessive chemicals in the environment
add to this other stresses like overly
processed foods refined sugars alcohol
artificial Foods preservatives
excessively cooked animal proteins
growth hormones antibiotics genetically
modified foods and medications and it is
amazing the liver can keep up at
all how does the liver rid these
stressors through
enzymes enzymes enzymes are catalysts
which speed up the chemical actions in
the body without enzymes chemical
reactions would take years to work
enzymes are proteins and do all the work
in the body from digestion to making
body tissue to allowing hormones to
work the liver makes the enzymes that
help break down and then rid the body of
these toxins in a process called Phase 1
Phase 2 enzyme system this series of
enzyme reactions are the first line of
defense for the body to deal with and
handle poisons microbes and toxins the
enzymes literally turn fat soluble
chemicals those that get stored in fat
cells into water soluble safe particles
which can be eliminated out of the body
however for the liver to produce these
enzymes it requires various nutrients
which are the phytochemicals found in
the cruciferous
vegetables without these nutrients the
liver cannot do its job overloading the
liver with toxins inhibits The Phase 1
phase 2 enzyme system fortunately the
liver is one of the most rugged organs
in the body having the incredible
ability to regenerate itself if the
person does two things first avoid those
things that destroy its functions in the
first place and second consume those
things that give it the nutrients to
regenerate healthy liver tissue the
liver is the Hub of all of the fat
burning hormones in the body in other
words for fat to be burned in the body
the metabolic reaction must involve the
liver thyroid hormones pancreas hormones
adrenal hormones pituitary and ovarian
hormones all need to interact with the
liver the storage of vitamins occurs in
the liver also especially vitamin A a
person with vitamin A deficiency will
have a difficult time seeing at night
vitamin A is also protective for your
immune
system one of the challenges is that
liver problems are often undetected
until the liver is severely damaged a
person could be experiencing liver
disease and still have normal liver
enzymes on blood tests so the best
solution is to not wait to be proactive
it just so happens that cruciferous
vegetables contain these essential
phytonutrients that allow your liver to
produce detoxifying enzymes the
cruciferous family of vegetables have
the most potent ability to rejuvenate
the body and give the liver special
enzymes that eliminate these toxic
chemicals Sprouts are one of the most
concentrated natural sources of vitamins
minerals enzymes and amino acids if you
then Sprout cruciferous vegetables you
get a super immune fighting and disease
protective food there are a wide variety
of Sprouts on the market today which
makes it much easier to include them in
your diet so today we invited June Leon
from Snider Sprouts who basically is
going to help us understand um how to
use Sprouts in our diet and I invited
here for a very specific reason I wanted
to bring the awareness up of the
benefits of sprouts in your diet and as
as far as how they can improve your
health out of all the foods that you can
possibly eat the Sprouts are at the top
of the list they probably are the most
healthiest food but when you go to a
restaurant and you're eating some salad
at salad bar you might look at these and
go what are these you know what these
aren't going to do anything but little
do you know that the
seed when it's germinated it grows in
the cycle of growing a plant that first
part the sprouting process is the
highest nutrient level and so it has uh
great properties that can be used to
enhance your health so welcome thank you
you're welcome so let's just go through
a couple different uh types of sprouts
the first Sprout I want to talk about is
this broccoli Sprouts right yes this is
part of the cruciferous family and
um they're very very you can put them on
salads oh yeah okay salads and
sandwiches they're um a very they're
they're so wonderful for you they are
full of flavor they're very spicy Rich
Sprout so there's different types of
taste in these different Sprouts right
cuz you have the onion Sprout where
where is that got an onion sprout right
here onion sprouts these are very
they're beautiful they look I know they
have the most beautiful color to them
they're such a rich green and you can
actually use those in place of onions in
your various dishes amazing so this
would be this is tastes like onion then
you have a garlic sprout uhhuh we've got
a garlic sprout in uh in here and in
fact we've got different we've got also
we've got mustard and others in there as
well so they become that becomes a very
rich taste amazing very spicy so you
could probably put the garlic and onion
and have it in in some like a pasta dish
right no yeah exactly but uh basically
um you have also spicy and then you have
more nutty sprouts and that would be
probably the lentils or something what
would you think actually honestly these
are kind of nutty tasting Alfalfa yeah
just the regular Alfalfa and it's not
it's it's more of a balanced taste as
well so if you know someone doesn't
really like the spiciness or the you
know all these different flavors at once
this is just a nice even flavor and it's
so good in salads and on sandwiches and
people love to do wraps mhm very good
interesting now alala Sprouts is very
high in the phytoestrogens which is good
to balance estrogens in female
especially menopausal if they have too
much of the bad estrogen or not enough
it tends to give that balance back into
the uh uh the cycle now these are
crunchy Sprouts are called yes lentils
yes and peas and chickpeas and cow peas
interesting full of protein this is a
very high protein product a good
vegetarian protein I know that uh um
amino acids are the building block to
protein and um when someone's a
vegetarian Arian they tend to be usually
deficient in certain amino acids but if
if they were going to be a vegetarian I
think they would want to eat a lot of
these abely they would want to eat those
they would want to put them in soups and
stews they would want to put them in
salads and just eat them right out of
the box like I do interesting so you
have nutty and then you have sweet
Sprouts so what are some of the sweeter
Sprouts we have uh snow pea sprouts
which are very sweet very very good very
good in salads uh we have corn shs which
are another and they're very pretty
little plant they look just like a small
small corn plant interesting what do
they taste like corn straight off the
cup very good that is interesting I bet
you some of my clients would like that
one yeah um so because it's a sprout
you're getting a lot less of sugar
getting more nutrients so that would be
something that would be a substitute for
uh corn on the cob or maybe even now a
lot of people like bread right come from
the wheat so you have the wheat berries
Y which I I I heard that they taste like
uh wheat when you chew them try them um
maybe
later but uh when you sprout this uh I
know there's a recipe I have my website
called um rejuven which if you sprout it
and then you ferment it it tastes like
lemonade that's very good pretty cool I
would like to try that definitely um so
when when you sprout this it becomes
that yes becomes wheat grass and this is
not something you want to eat just the
way it is because it is a blade of grass
um so instead what you want to do is
clip it and juice it and that becomes
that's very very good for your liver
detoxification and everything else but
what interesting is that uh this is
loaded with vitamin E and so is the
sprouted um the wheat berry too um so
you have this incredible vitamin E
complex also you can do wheat ger pearls
but then when you oxidize it Expos it to
air you lose all the vitamin E within a
very short Peri time that's why when
someone takes flour from the wheat berry
they grind it it it doesn't last very
long I mean it's just like gone so
you're eating your your nutrition
contexts go way way way down as you
refine this so that's what we're talking
about the Sprout which is a higher level
of nutrition Clover is uh almost as
equivalent to the broccoli but um I know
it has a milder taste it does yeah again
a lot of people who sort of want to stay
away from those heavy tastes it's very
mild Sprout very easy to eat interesting
and then you have bean sprouts bean
sprouts they're loaded with protein uh
the other Sprout that I didn't bring
today but it looks just like it is the
soybean Sprout and that though is a
sprout you definitely want to cook that
use that in soups and things like that
the bean sprouts you can eat raw you can
put them in stir fries very very good so
now typically when you have soy that's
been modified or processed in isolates U
that would be to my in my opinion not
the best source of nutrition but when
you have a sprout you're getting a lot
more nutrition if it's fresh and it's
not modified you take the seed that's
organic the um the phytoestrogens are
very good to balance estrogens and also
they're very very high in protein I mean
which is um what we're trying to do is
we're trying to give people a protein
source that is a high quality that's
very easy on the liver because when you
people that eat meat potatoes it's like
cooked meat protein this is so much more
available to your liver to be able to
process to make hair nail skin
connective tissue um joints so that's
what we're trying to do is give people
live protein uh there is carbohydrate in
here but the the quality of protein is
so much higher than that of uh cooked uh
protein or heated or pasteurized protein
uh let's see what else we have
here there's actually one fennel fennel
Sprouts very good for your stomach upset
tummies what does it taste like it's got
a very licorice taste to it it's a very
definite taste interesting I'll see if I
can give that to my kids instead of
licorice there you go all my teenager
kids uh see if I can get them to go with
that so you have radish onion sprouts
and then you also have Dill that would
be an interesting flavor yeah nice
strong flavor interesting well thank you
so much for coming out and explaining
about the Sprouts so this has been very
helpful the question is how many weekly
servings of cruciferous vegetables do
you need 3 to five servings per week
this is less than one serving a day one
serving equals one cup or six tablets or
capsules of freeze-dried
cruciferous however due to a history of
eating poorly chemical exposure and wear
and tear on the liver it's recommended
that a person consume not just the
minimum amount but an extra amount of
cruciferous at least until the person
Health
stabilizes ounce for ounce cruciferous
vegetables contain as much calcium as a
glass of milk and more vitamin C than an
orange they are the best source of
vitamin A and have more fiber than a
slice of wheat brand bread do your body
a favor eat cruciferous vegetables and
live a long healthy and energetic life
[Music]
