what is the difference between a heart
attack and sudden cardiac death or
sudden Cardiac Arrest well when you have
sudden Cardiac Arrest or sudden cardiac
death you die right away oh when you
have a heart attack you may not die
right away it's usually involving an
obstruction in the coronary artery that
goes to the heart muscle itself but with
these other conditions the electrical
system of the heart just shuts down and
for the majority of time it's called
idiopathic which means they don't know
what causes it so I want to talk about
the relationship between
omega-3 fatty acids and the electrical
system of the heart as well as how you
can use fish oils to decrease the risk
of sudden Cardiac Arrest or death so
what is so special about these omega-3
fish oils that you keep hearing about
over and over and over and how do they
help you as far as the heart function
well first of all they have several
properties that involve the heart
they're anti-arythmic which means they
help the heart stay in Rhythm they're
anti-inflammatory which anytime you
reduce inflammation to the heart you're
going to help the heart function and if
the inflammation goes too long you can
get fibrosis to the heart and it just so
happens that these fish oils
trigger genes that turn off the fibrosis
effect of the heart Bishops are also
anti-thrombotic which means that they
inhibit
this thrombus or this clot formation so
they help keep the blood on the thinner
side so it doesn't clot unnecessarily
even though if there's a problem in the
artery you want it to clot but fish oils
can help prevent this inappropriate
clotting this soils also support this
endothelial layer on the inside of your
arteries which is going to help your
blood pressure and it's also going to
prevent the formation of
calcium and cholesterol from forming on
the inside of the arteries but despite
all that I think the biggest benefit
that fish oils can do for your heart is
make your cell membranes very fluid and
less rigid if we take a look at the
opposite of Omega-3 we're dealing with
omega-6 fatty acids okay and that would
be all the seed oils the vegetable oils
the soy oil the cotton seed safflower
sunflower oil peanut oil all these oils
invade the cell membrane and make them
more rigid it's extremely important that
you have the ratios of omega-6 to
omega-3 correct and they really should
be like a one-to-one ratio an average
person in the US has like a 15 to 1
ratio to omega-3 fatty acids and so you
can imagine the stiff arteries you can
imagine all the other problems that
occur with these omega-6 increasing
insulin resistance increasing the risk
of obesity increasing the risk of
getting a fatty liver and the list goes
on and on and on So based on that data
you might think well okay well I'm doing
fish oils I'm doing supplements each day
I'm fine but what you may not know is
there's a lot of hidden sources of
omega-6 fatty acids
and this
omega-6 fatty acids compete with omega-3
so the more that the omega-6 are in the
diet the less you're going to get of the
omega-3 so if you're doing both of these
at the same time you're really
nullifying the effects of Omega-3 and
this is very important to know so let's
go through some of the foods or the
hidden foods that are high in omega-6
well you have all the animals that are
fed grains Okay like the commercial
chicken the commercial chicken eggs
grain-fed beef versus the grass-fed beef
all of these are very high in omega-6
um all the grains the bread the pasta
the cereal the crackers very high in
omega-6
most of the nuts are high in omega-6
except for walnuts uh do have a
precursor to the omega-3 fatty acids and
then what about all the salad dressings
try to find a salad dressing that does
not have vegetable oil you want to make
your own out of extra virgin olive oil
and vinaigrette then we have the
condiments like mayonnaise okay that's
usually made out of soy oil try to find
a mayonnaise that doesn't have omega-6
oils
what about hummus right you buy hummus
for your to dip your cucumbers I mean
it's very difficult to find hummus
without omega-6 oils for some reason
they just don't add the olive oil in the
recipe well I know the reason is just
because it's too expensive but you want
hummus with extra virgin olive oil not
soy oil or safflower oil now farm-raised
fish does by the way have more omega-3
fatty acids than wild caught fish
however it also has six times higher
omega-6 fatty acids than while caught
fish and then we have restaurant food I
mean it's just loaded with omega-6 fatty
acids and the oils and fast food
especially typical french fries deep
fried in all the omega-6 oils so this is
a very important video if you don't know
this information start increasing okay
your fish oils cod liver oil is a little
bit better because it not only has the
omega-3 fatty acids but it also has
vitamin d and vitamin A whereas fish
oils don't however fish oils are still
good make sure you include salmon or
fatty fish while caught in your diet on
a regular basis
but more importantly really start
avoiding these omega-6 fats that seem to
creep into our diet so often and on top
of that it's fascinating to me how the
so-called nutritional experts will tell
you that you need to replace your
saturated fats with the omega-6 when
there's absolutely no evidence to show
that that's going to improve your heart
in any way shape or form now if you
haven't seen my video on cod liver oil
you should check that out I put it up
right here
