hey Dr bur here I want to invite you to
a webinar series that I'm going to be
doing for the next four weeks it's a
series of webinars every Tuesday night
at 8:00 Eastern Standard Time nutrient
absorption midsection fat anti-aging
energy these are very general titles but
I'm going to be covering a lot of
information on the root cause it's all
about uh uh cause and effect
relationships you know when you do
research and what prompted me to do this
is I was on the internet and um I'm
trying to find some information on a
health condition and the first three
pages are all drug companies so I'm like
you know what I have to do a seminar to
show you what's behind certain things
the definition of a symptom is an
indicator of something else so symptoms
are not the problem um that what is that
something else that's what I'm going to
teach you cause and effect relationship
it's called evaluation that's why
someone goes to a doctor is to find out
the reason for something but they're not
getting it so medicine has become the
management of symptoms so if you're
waiting someday from someone else to
make you healthy don't hold your breath
your best health insurance is the
knowledge of what I'm going to show you
because you need to know that a lot of
the stuff that's put out there is
incorrect so we're going to do a lot of
um cleaning up of false information
supplying what's missing and give you
the correct sequence of how to create a
healthy body so these seminars these
webinars um I'm going to try to make
them 30 minutes they might go a little
longer because there's a lot of question
and answer uh this the the if you show
up and watch the webinars they're
actually free uh but if they're I am
going to record them and there will be a
fee uh later if you want to watch them
later but at least you can go on here
and watch it and check it out so I
wanted to share this with you so sign up
today click down below and I will see
you inside
