so we talked about fat well fat this is
five pounds of fat fat people don't like
their fat now that is not a cushion it's
not an insulator
the purpose of fat is to store energy
it's a survival mechanism it's a
protected mechanism that helps you
survive during those times of threat and
survival or excess stress when your
health goes down when your stress goes
up your body starts holding this now
where does it hold it around the vital
organs right around your belly right
here why does it hold it in the belly
because that's where all the most
important organs are to feed them the
nutrition they need which is energy
potential energy you're actually not
really if you think you're fat you're
not fat you just had a little bit too
much potential energy it sounds a lot
better but this is what fat is and this
is going to come off in direct
relationship to your quantity of health
you can create in your body I want you
to actually switch your goal from losing
weight to creating health that's the
only way you're going to succeed and I'm
going to show you a little chart here
take a look at this little charcoal
here's you and we want to get to here
instead of focusing on the weight let's
do this let's focus on your health let's
create more health and what I'm talking
about health is not putting you on a you
know an aspirin a day I'm talking about
real health from the right food the
right eating plan find out your body
type tailor make it to your your body
put the right exercise in there extract
the stress out and you can't lose so a
person we focus on the health and what
we look at is an indicator to know this
is working is that your energy is
improving you're feeling stronger fewer
cravings we don't expect you to do a
program with cravings you have to get
rid of the cravings cravings mean that
your body is starving it's missing
something when you put the right thing
in you will get rid of the cravings
within three or four days a better state
of well-being okay if you have pain in
your body we basically just help you
with that because that would be a stress
so anything that would interfere with
you having stress we help you with
so we actually will lose the weight and
you're gonna Plateau but we use that
device to measure how much health that's
occurring which is is your stress coming
to balance is your recovery coming up
that means this is getting better and
then you start to burn fat here the
truth is that nutrients are the
foundation for creating a healthy body
and creating a healthy body is the
foundation for losing weight very
important to know that so once you start
burning fat you're going to ride the
wave until you achieve your ideal weight
goal okay now when that when that's when
that you achieve your ideal weight then
starts the real program and that's when
we get you really fit I'm not just
talking about losing weight I'm talking
about really getting fit on the inside
of your body
more endurance better sleep feeling
stronger that's what it's all about
I know people have told you that you're
too old or you can't do this but that is
a lie I've seen people in their 80s and
90s that are very very fit so the goal
is that as you get older you're getting
younger as your body gets older you're
getting younger you're feeling younger
and everyone else around you is falling
apart you're actually going up people
don't realize that I'm 69 years old now
I'm just kidding I'm 44
but when I was 28 I was actually very
old on the inside of my body
the only thing green that I ate was
pistachio ice cream and lime green jello
and of course that's why I'm doing this
video right now and that concludes the
philosophy of getting healthy losing
weight and keeping it off
