hey guys I'm back and today I'm gonna do
a slightly different video than I
normally do I'm gonna talk about the
book that turned my health around okay
and the name of that book was mastering
the zone by Barry Sears PhD his first
book was the zone if I'm not mistaken
and then he he wrote a book called
mastering his own as a second look but
don't quote me on that that's just my
thought and I'm gonna read to you the
one line that I had this huge Epiphany
okay
so first I'm gonna read in Chapter one
and then there's this basically a little
paragraph in Chapter one and a little
paragraph in Chapter two okay so this is
acts I didn't even read the rest of the
book I just read these two paragraphs I
scanned okay obviously that was not the
enemy if that isn't the enemy then what
is the answer is insulin it's excess
insulin that makes you fat and keeps you
fat and your body produces excessive
amounts of insulin when you eat either
too many fat free carbohydrates or too
many calories at a meal now I'm gonna
come back to this because this is where
the problem is that he didn't explain
this well enough but I'm gonna I'll come
back to that therefore when you talk
about the zone it is really the zone of
insulin now I didn't even know that
before I read the book I did not know he
was talking about the insulin zone not
too high not too low a zone of insulin
controlled by your diet okay that was in
Chapter 1 chapter 2 but more important
protein is so vital because it
stimulates the hormone glucagon now
chapter 1 he's talking about insulin
being the problem and I talked about
that a lot but there's another hormone
called glucagon that does the opposite
to insulin okay it'll suppress insulin
they both work on a teeter-totter
mechanism and protein will stimulate
glucagon exercise will stimulate
glucagon carbs stimulate insulin so
glucagon has the opposite physiological
action to
in fact and this is the line that blew
me away
in fact glucagon acts as a major
governor of excess insulin production he
knows at that time where I was like wow
nine understand this in school but it
never really connected with what you eat
and then he goes into this it is excess
insulin that makes you fat makes you
hungry makes you mentally foggy
decreases your physical performance and
increases the likelihood of chronic
disease now at the time I was extremely
exhausted with brain fog starving all
the time I didn't know why so I replaced
my my cereal for breakfast with I think
I had a it was a buffalo burger the
first time and then I think the second
time I had some fish and it was like
someone took a helmet off my head I was
like oh my gosh I feel so much better so
that was when I started telling all my
patients oh you need to start having a
protein breakfast and it wrote in my
book and the whole thing and that went
on for a couple years but then I
stumbled on some additional information
which took me to the next level and it
really had to do with what Barry
originally said in chapter one with
these this eating if you eat in general
anything significant with calories
this is gonna affect insulin so at the
time I didn't really get it but looking
back on it this is just basically eating
so eating the frequency of eating and
the carbs so when I introduced in a
minute fasting and I cut the breakfast
right out I eliminated this part of the
insulin equation and eliminated this and
then I started going my health started
going higher and higher and higher so
that's pretty much what I teach right
now now the problem with mastering the
zone is that he's recommending 40% fat
30% protein and 30% carbs he's allowing
way too many carbs
even in the zone bar that he sells
there's soy protein low quality tapioca
starch corn syrup and sugar so I'm not
even recommending this book what you
should do is healthy keto and in a min
fasting so your fat is 70% and your
protein is 20% and your overall carbs
are really like 10% but you're not
really counting the vegetables but the
vegetables would be like 5% because it's
mostly fiber and water and then 5% low
glycemic carbs like hummus or the carbs
and nuts or the carbs and berries
something like that so in summary I do
appreciate the data that he has in this
book the problem is knowing what the
vital data is and what data that might
not be vital or might not be true and
sometimes you don't know until you
really try it out well I'm gonna tell
you that this formula right here
healthy keto and in a minute fasting has
been thoroughly tested on a large amount
of people that I'm working with that are
in social media so if you're new to this
I put a link down below of exactly what
you should be eating and lastly in the
comments I want you to tell me when you
came across some information or some
concept that turned your health around
if it was a book or a video go ahead and
put that down below because I'm really
curious thanks for watching
