hi guys Dr Berg here in this video I
want to talk about this very interesting
thing called dopamine dopamine is a
neurotransmitter which is a hormonik
communication or message that travels
through the nervous system versus
hormones are Communications that travel
through the blood and um this
neurotransmitter has the effect of
giving you pleasure okay so it's a
pleasure neurotransmitter does other
things that are involved with reward and
even motion so if you have a problem
with dopamine deficiencies you might
have resting Tremors and Parkinson's
which is a different thing but it's
mainly pleasure it's a feel-good hormone
it also gives you that Vitality so if
you could imagine not that you ever took
cocaine but the sensation of taking
cocaine what you would feel like this
heightened pleasure you know ability of
the conquer everything it's only because
cocaine and Other Drugs stimulate
dopamine so the actual physical feeling
that you have is coming from dopamine
not really the drug the drug is only the
trigger that creates more dopamine in
the body so my thought is why can't we
just increase make sure this is high
naturally right so if you're deficient
in dopamine you lack motivation you lack
that drive uh you become fatigued you
kind of lose your goals um addictions
very addictive personality mood issues
anxiety depression resting Tremor things
like that so you can see that this is a
very uh popular neurotransmitter that
people are trying to increase by doing a
lot of things especially you know drugs
um the causes of a dopamine deficiency
would be excessive caffeine can deplete
it but if you it's interesting because
caffeine will initially make you feel
good but if you take too much over time
it kind of decreases the dopamine uh
effect alcohol will decrease dopamine
certain drugs
cocaine all those type of drugs and even
a lot of the psych drugs proac paxel
well Butrin all of those do increase
dopamine so over time it depletes
dopamine so it's a trick because it's
you bring it up and it's bring it down
same thing with like drugs if you're
addicted to drugs um you're going to
deplete your dopamine reserves and
you're going cause the necessity to take
more and more more drug over time um
insulin sugar will deplete dopamine
stress will deplete dopamine uh cortisol
from the adrenals will deplete dopamine
low stomach acids if you don't have
enough uh stomach acid you can't digest
protein in general so you start
developing a problem with making
neurotransmitters in general so you'll
be deficient in a lot of different
transmitters neurotransmitters so the
point is how do you know if you're
deficient in stomach acid well number
one do you have heartburn Do you have a
reflux do you get indigestion that would
mean that you're probably deficient in
stomach acid as you age you need more
stomach acid so just by adding more Alid
of vinegar or ban Hydro chloride you can
increase your
neurotransmitter uh Reserve okay then we
have adrenal stress the adrenal gland
the inside of the adrenal gland makes
dopamine so if your adrenals are burnt
out or exhausted you're not going to
make the level of dopamine so chronic
stress you know all these things deplete
your neurotransmitters not just dopamine
deficiencies but all the
neurotransmitter deficiencies so here's
some things that you can do of
course don't consume as much caffeine or
alcohol just get off the drugs get off
the sugar cut the stress down increase
the acid improve the adrenal but also
here's n nutrient wise you can take
tyrosine that's a natural amino acid
that has a precursor to dopamine you can
take alanine which is a precursor to
dopamine it can help build it up um it's
a natural amino acid vitamin D getting a
lot of sun will help recharge and build
up dopamine reserves vitamin B6 and B5
are two other additional B vitamins that
are necessary in making this
neurotransmitter um of course in a lot
of the other videos I talk about you
know all these things will deplete these
vitamins too so uh you may not need
these if you stop taking these right
here okay exercise will also increase
dopamine so as you can see there are
things that you can do about this so I
just want to bring your awareness up
that um there is a hormone behind this
and if you have any of these symptoms
you might want to do some of these
actions okay thanks for
watching take five do it
and where am I going with this press the
Subscribe
button forgot the last part and I'm
going to see you next time am I going to
I
will press up and uh yeah you'll get
future uh updates that's right updates I
knew there was a word press the
Subscribe button and I will keep you
updated on the future events
