I want to share some pretty bizarre uh
symptoms that relate to a B1 deficiency
the biggest thing you need to know about
B1 is that it relates to everything
nerve okay so that includes the brain so
if there's a B1 deficiency it can really
affect all parts of the nervous system
you see B1 is necessary to give energy
to a very specific cell called the Alo
dendrite okay what the heck is the
illegal dendrite that is the cell that
makes myelin as in myin sheath the
coating around the nervous system and
when that coating breaks down because
there's not enough B1 all sorts of
things can happen and that's what I'm
going to cover today now how do you
become deficient in B1 well by consuming
refined sugars refined carbohydrates as
in the bread the pasta ser crackers
biscuits waffles anything with refined
grains this is why they enrich grains
with synthetic vitamins and minerals
because it's depleted with certain
nutrients and then when you consume it
it can deplete you of these nutrients
all right another common thing that will
deplete you a B1 is tea the tannins in
tea will deplete you a B1 as well as the
tannins in coffee as well as the
caffeine in both sulfites in wine as
well as dried fruit okay and other
things as well alcohol which is also in
the wine raw fish met Thorin chlorine as
in tap water will do it and a lot of
medications like ant acid antibiotics
especially CYO diuretics antidepressants
like the ssris birth control Caesar
medications Lupron which is for
endometriosis and conditions that relate
to early puberty and by the way that
drug has a tremendous amount of side
effects and then we have gtool and
cervarix which both if I'm not mistaken
and have been taken off the market but
they both are vaccines for HPV the human
papiloma virus all right so let's first
talk about the first symptom and this
would be a symptom that's related to the
cerebellum okay the cerebellum it's the
back part of the brain that if looked at
it it would look very similar to
cauliflower but when you have a very
severe deficiency in B1 you get
degeneration in the cerebellum now the
cerebellum controls motor function it
controls certain part of our language it
controls mood and attention so when you
reach out in space to get an object
you're using your cerebellum when you're
walking and you're coordinating all the
different muscles you're using your
cerebellum so when you get a short
circuited problem in the cerebellum an
electrical problem because the myin is
breaking down uh you can get Tourette
syndrome and that is like random uh
vocalization of certain um things that a
person says as well as random twitching
and random motions that are just not
under the person's control then you have
another problem called a taxia that is
the gate problem if you're trying to
walk Heel To Toe you won't be able to do
it your shuffling your movements are
very erratic um and that is a cerebellum
problem another problem with the
cerebellum it's obsessive compulsive
disorder that is a symptom of a major B1
deficiency so you can see that uh B1
deficiency can affect a person in
different ways not always the same way
and realize I'm talking about uh very
specific symptoms that are related to
the cerebellum but there are many other
symptoms that are related to different
parts of your body that have nothing to
do with the milein Sheep okay another
symptom that's related to a B1
deficiency is attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder because think
about it we have
hyperactivity this is an excessive
Motion state with a lack of attention
both things are controlled by the cabone
and then B1 is also needed for the
autonomic nervous system because
remember I talked about B1 is everything
neurological right the autonomic nervous
system is composed of three different
areas the sympathetic nervous system the
parasympathetic which is rest and digest
versus the sympathetic which is flight
or fight and then the Inc nervous system
which is everything to do with digestion
so with this system being dysfunctional
you can get what's called pots and pots
is a condition where you stand up and
you feel dizzy you're you're going to
collapse so you have a very difficult
time standing up it's actually a very
devastating condition which affects the
autonomic nervous system now even MS
symptoms because Ms involves the brain
as well as M and sheath can mimic a B1
deficiency so people that are sometimes
diagnosed with Ms really might just have
a B1 deficiency and then we have phom
alist symptoms too that can mimic a B1
deficiency because the relationship
between the nerve and the muscle
connection and then we have number eight
which is chronic fatigue syndrome which
also relates to the central nervous
system the nervous system Powers uh the
energy through the body and so if we're
deficient in that electrical power we're
we're just going to be exhausted all the
time and then we have another part of
the nervous system called the peripheral
nervous system okay and a common symptom
with that is called peripheral
neuropathy now that is usually a
situation where you see in diabetics
where the bottom of your feet become
painful burning numb achy that can then
also occur in your hands okay because
because the nervous system especially
milin is destroyed directly with sugar
as well so this is why you see this
symptom in diabetes but you can also
have periphal neurop with a B1
deficiency that's created another way
but also high levels of sugar will
create a B1 deficiency and also create
periphal neuropathy now sciatic nerve is
insulated with myin so some people that
are diagnosed with stica really have a
B1 deficiency that is acting like
caka so what is the solution to all this
well I already mentioned all the things
that can cause a B1 deficiency so you're
going to have to figure out which one is
causing yours but the other thing is
just to take some B1 make sure it's a
natural version not the synthetic
version um a good source of natural B1
also is nutritional yeast it's not the
only source but it's a good source but
make sure you get the unfortified
version and then if you have a problem
that's anything related to the myelin
sheath okay which is a fat layer I would
recommend in addition to the Natural B1
I would take a fat cable B1 one vitamin
called benot toine and whatever it
recommends on the back of the label I
would times that by four take four times
as much because if you take the fat cble
B1 called benine it will penetrate the
nervous system much better now the next
most important video to watch would be
my presentation at my Summit my keto
Summit on B1 check it out I put it up
right here e
