okay so I've been in practice for 29
years and I wanted to show you a couple
little interesting things that I found
by working on tens of thousands of
people okay this happens over and over
and over people come in with back pain
so this is looking at someone's back the
right shoulder left shoulder the spine
and you people come in and they have
pain in their back I'm not talking about
the lower back I'm talking about the
upper back in the shoulder area and so
they expect to have their spine
manipulated and adjusted and get rid of
the pain well after doing that so many
times and finding out it doesn't hold or
it comes right back or doesn't work I
started to look to other reasons why
they might have pain and this is what I
found a lot of the pain on the upper
right shoulder this muscle right here
the muscle is called a labate or angle a
scapula muscle it's right on the upper
side it can even go down the shoulder
here this is all gallbladder the
gallbladder is congested or there's a
problem with it and it's irritated and
it's referring pain on a nerve that
comes up to the right side okay so it's
referred pain through a nerve and that
usually happens because the person is
eating the wrong food and they're eating
a lot of snacks and they're eating junk
food and they're definitely probably
combining the wrong things protein and
sugar and fat and sugar and what they
should be doing it's in a minute
fascinating and keyed out and keeping
their carbs low because that would get
rid of this pain like that so if the
pain comes around the scapula area right
through here that's more liver a liver
issue and again it's related to diet
because as soon as you change your diet
the pain goes away I can't tell you how
many people have had this chronically
for ever and they've never connected the
dots it's their food it's their diet and
they just live with it and so they go to
the massage therapist they go to the
chiropractor and they start beating on
these muscles and in fact this was me
for about 12 years I had a pain through
here for years in fact it would be so
tight they would rotate these vertebras
pinched the nerve and I had pain down
the arm okay and the shoulder all this
was coming from my liver and gallbladder
now if the pain is on the left side
chances are it could be the pancreas or
the stomach in which case maybe
doing too many cook foods because a lot
of times when you have too many either
nuts or cooked foods it can put a big
strain on the pancreas because you're
forcing the pancreas to produce more
enzymes so if that's overwhelmed you can
have pain on the left side because you
also have a nerve that comes down on the
left side too it's called the phrenic
nerve as well now occasionally it could
come from the heart that shoots down the
left arm that's definitely a possibility
it's not as common but that can happen
and then you have pain a little lower
not necessarily all the way in the lower
part of the back but maybe up a little
bit that could be kidney could be kidney
stones and so I just wanted to point
this out because if you're suffering
with back pain and it's not going away
look to the different organs and it
could be that the pain is referred and
then you obviously need a change of diet
I put a link down below of how to do
that alright thanks for watching hey
guys I want to personally invite you to
a new Facebook group that I just started
called dr. Berg's Kido and in a minute
fasting lab okay so I created this so we
can share our successful actions what
worked what didn't work your results so
I put a link down below so go ahead and
sign up and I'll see you inside
