hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about bad breath on the ketogenic
diet now typically when you're burning
ketones versus glucose ketones tend to
give off kind of a fruity odor but if
you're burning more or you're releasing
more acetone these are three different
types of ketones it could actually
almost resemble nail varnish remover
okay so it's a little bit on the toxic
side if you're consuming excess protein
on the ketogenic diet which a lot of
people do you're going to get more
ammonia which is kind of a I guess the
best way to describe is some old urine
it's just kind of a ammonia comes from
the skin underneath your armpits it
could be on your breath it's pretty
disgusting actually
and then there's another form where you
just have an overgrowth of a certain
bacteria which is giving off a sulfur
smell which is kind of like eggs but
this is not typically associated with
this and so but this can aggravate this
simply because the liver might be
congested so what would you do if you
have these this fruity odor or nail
varnish remover what do you do to get
rid of that odor increase your vegetable
content 7 to 10 cups to start flushing
all this stuff out okay so this is no
longer a waste product also over time
you're going to be more efficient in
burning these co2 ketones so a lot less
of it is going to come out of the breath
or even the urine now
excess protein will guess what we're
going to recommend for that cut down
your protein if you're doing 8 to 10
ounces go down to five or even three
ounces of protein until you no longer
smell that ammonia okay and then for
bacterial that like kind of the sulfur
smell you'd want to use something called
effective microbes the type of probiotic
that is very synergistic to each other
of friendly yeast and friendly mold
friendly fungus from the bacteria all in
one and I'll put a link down below where
you can get it it's very inexpensive and
you can take that and that will actually
improve this greatly and summary there
is a way to do this without having bad
okay thanks for watching hi guys hey
listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you a report
