so today I want to define a word
carcinogen what does carcinogen mean
carcinogen is any substance or radiation
that has the capacity to promote the
formation of cancer so what happens you
have this normal cell that gets damaged
by a carcinogen and it loses its ability
to die so normally you have normal cells
that have pre-program death cancer cells
don't they live on forever it's kind of
weird it's kind of like you would think
it'd just be reverse so if we take this
book right here the book on toxicology
it's loaded with all the things that can
trigger cancer you have pesticides
insecticides herbicides fungicides heavy
metals country-and-western
I'm just kidding that was a joke
solvents cigarette smoking radiation all
these chemicals and then it gets into
the whole mechanism of what happens to
the body and the time it takes for it to
turn into cancer and that is the problem
with cancer it's delayed so you have
this initial exposure and then 20 years
later you end up with cancer right so
it's hard to form the link now the good
news is our bodies have the ability to
fight cancer and protect you against
cancer through all sorts of internal
antioxidants and plus the food that you
eat is loaded with phytonutrients that
have anti-cancer properties and the
oxidants that actually protect the cell
from this damage so in the liver you
have something called phase 1 phase 2
detoxification where your body can turn
poisons into harmless particles so it's
really important to eat enough
cruciferous vegetables on a regular
basis it's important to eat organic food
unfortunately GMO food as little with
something called glyphosate which
actually has been linked to cancer and
of course what if you do research on
this you're gonna find that it's safe
but there's so much corruption in this
area it's not funny and number one if
you go to a grocery store nothing is
labeled GMO they don't have to label it
as GML well we know if there's
in there if there's corn it's going to
be GMO also there is another bill that
was passed called the Monsanto
Protection Act or the farmers assurance
provision okay check this out
this bill bars federal courts from being
able to halt the sale or planting of GMO
no matter what the health issue arises
concerning GMO in the future is that
crazy or what
so guys you just need to start eating
healthy you need to eat organic on a
regular basis yes it's more expensive
but it's worth it alright thanks for
watching
so I hope you're coming to the keto
health summit coming up in October so I
want to quickly comment on what we're
gonna do that's different from other
conventions okay the problem with these
other conventions is they give you
information over a load okay it's so
much data that you're basically swimming
in a sea of information we're going to
do things very differently we're only
going to cover the most important things
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
died it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
