you know when I heard this statistic up
to 80% of all women develop some type of
fibroid by age 40 mind-blowing like why
that is so weird and the last thing that
a woman wants is a hysterctomy with all
the side effects not to mention a
fibroid so I pulled a string and I found
something fascinating I want to share
with you let's first take some clues
about fibroids number one they actually
decrease after menopause that's
interesting so why would that be well
it's probably related to estrogen right
we're going to get there when a woman
goes through pregnancy or is exposed to
HRT or birth control pills there can be
an enlargement of the fibroid which
sounds like it's also related to
estrogen then we have the relationship
between obesity type 2 diabetes high
blood pressure and polycystic ovarian
syndrome all increasing the risk of
fibroids why is it that black women are
3 to nine times more at risk for getting
fibroids and of course the common theme
with this is estrogen estrogen is a
growth hormone it's a primary driver of
fibroids and endometriosis all right
let's look at what a fibroid is uterus
tissue what is a uterus it's a muscle
and so the difference between the
fibroid and uterus is a fibroid is a
growth from the uterus and so it grows
out of the uterus tissue in a fibroid
it's very non-elastic there's a lot more
collagen in a fibroid that's why it's
hard but there's some very interesting
differences between a fibroid and the
uterus in a fibroid you have a much
greater sensitivity for estrogen which
means that a fibroid is very sensitive
to estrogen okay it can grow a lot
faster with estrogen than the actual
uterus and a fibroid has more receptors
for estrogen there's also more of this
enzyme called aromatase going on in a
fibroid now what's aromatase that's an
enzyme that converts androgens which is
more for men to estrogen the environment
in this fibroid
has a lot less oxygen than the uterus
that's called a hypoxia environment
we'll come back to that and lastly
what's unique about a fibroid is that it
has a lot more inflammation than the
uterus so here's the question what do
all of these Clues have in common so
there's one common thread that goes
throughout all these Clues and that is a
low vitamin D situation now regarding
research in this area which I'm going to
cover in a little bit there's mixed
reviews on Research with vitamin D and I
really think that has to do with the
frequency and the amount of vitamin D
that they give people in certain studies
the amount of vitamin D needs to be a
lot greater than the usual vitamin D
that's given to people because most of
the studies are operating off of this
old outdated information that we need a
very small amount of vitamin D like 600
to 800 IUS and all that research is
mainly for bone own skeletal calcium and
not the immune system the uterus the
prostate the skin the brain the muscles
this is a completely other system that
needs a lot more vitamin D vitamin D
will inhibit the growth of fibroids
number two vitamin D also helps regulate
other growth factors as well and since
we're dealing with a fibroid we're
really dealing with something that's out
of control as far as the growth vitamin
D also is a aromatase inhibitor it
blocks that enzyme preventing excess
amount of estrogen vitamin D increases
apoptosis which causes the fibroid cells
to commit suicide preventing the growth
of a fibroid but vitamin D also is
anti-inflammatory anytime we have
inflammation we can have a growth of a
tumor or even cancer well guess what
vitamin D is the most potent
anti-inflammatory someone can take this
is also interesting vitamin D doesn't
seem to work in an environment where
there's not enough oxygen and hypo toxic
environment now the very nature of a
fibroid it's creating this low oxygen
hypoxia because it's so dense with
irregular collagen and things like that
so this could explain why normal amounts
of vitamin D won't even come close to
dealing or penetrating this fibroid in
doing anything you have to use much
higher amounts vitamin D downgrades
estrogen there are two different
receptors for estrogen one estrogen
receptor increases t tumor growth the
other one called estrogen receptor beta
decreases or shrinks the cells that
actually are turning into a tumor well
guess what vitamin D supports this one
that helps shrink it and inhibits the
other one that is making it grow which
is very cool and also vitamin D helps to
increase the certain hormone in the
liver to help lower the amount of free
estrogen that's throughout the body so
if we look at this whole situation
estrogen is the primary driver but we
don't have the break pads and that is
the vitamin D simply because the
majority of the population is deficient
in vitamin D especially black people and
black women why because of the melanin
in the skin blocks vitamin D and so here
we have this population which is already
low in vitamin D and then they actually
have these spikes of estrogen they're
going to get more fibroids than people
that have enough vitamin D now let's
take a look at obesity for example obese
people are always deficient in vitamin D
because vitamin D gets diluted into the
fat cells so an overweight person needs
a lot more vitamin D because it gets
diluted and it's less effective now as
far as type 2 diabetes there's always
low vitamin D high blood pressure I
think the majority of that is low
vitamin D that's really behind high
blood pressure because if you give a
person more vitamin D their blood
pressure goes down and then of course
you have polycystic ovarian syndrome
that's a situation where we have way too
much insulin now this is very
interesting information because because
it provides a solution to a very common
condition that occurs with up to 80% of
all women but I do not think you can
create a dent into this problem unless
you take enough vitamin D and I'm going
to get into this but I first want to
just talk about a few studies involved
and also some anecdotal case studies
that I want to share with you next so
the question is is there research on
vitamin D shrinking fibroids well it's a
bit mixed but I want to show you why
it's mixed and I'm not going to show you
some of the positive results right now
there was a study in 20133 in
reproductive science that showed a
significant decrease in the size of
fibroids within 12 weeks taking
25,000 IUS of vitamin D3 once a week now
if they took that every day I think the
results would be even better here's
another study in 2014 on
African-American women and these women
had low vitamin D in their blood they
found a high percentage of women with
fibroids have a lower vitamin D level
than those that had a higher level of
vitamin D in their blood they gave them
50,000 IUS of vitamin D3 every two weeks
and then in 10 weeks they saw a
significant decrease in the fibroid size
and I'm even surprised that they saw
those results because taking it every
two weeks is just not going to be
sufficient you want to take it every
single day here's another study by C
vantini these are women who took vitamin
D and they found the group that took the
vitamin D did not experience any fibroid
growth versus the other group who didn't
take vitamin D had a 40% increase in
fibroid growth in vitamin D3 doctors
even discourage women from taking 10,000
or 20,000 or even 50,000 vitamin D every
day because somehow it's toxic when I
said I was taking 50,000 IU when I said
that he's my GP he he was white as a
sheet he says that can't be you took
50,000 IU you know that's toxic I said
no it's not toxic that's what they all
say yet the research shows that you'd
have to take hundreds of thousands of
vitamin D3 for months to create any
toxicity and really the only toxicity is
excess calcium in the blood causing
kidney stones but you can even greatly
minimize that side effect by taking
magnesium vitamin K2 drinking a little
more water 2 and2 lers of water a day
those are all the co-actors that will
minimize that Toxic effect which
personally I think that if you're taking
50,000 I used or less you're not even in
that range of having any toxicity now
there's a really good book that I'm
going to recommend Down Below on using
high doses of vitamin D3 and this
particular author his name is Jeff BS
has a website and you can search on his
website now these are anecdotal they're
not based in any studies but it's worth
listening to here's one I had a large
fibroid tumor and the doctors
recommended surgery to remove my entire
uterus well guess what after remaining
on a high dosage of vitamin D3 with the
proper K2 magnesium zinc and calcium
balance and of course changing my diet
my last MRI showed that the tumor is now
in a necrosis status what's ironic is my
doctor at Emory in Atlanta dropped me
because I refuse to have the surgery
let's show you another one right here I
am a 50-year-old RN and a patient
medical Advocate with the vitamin D
levels of 30 nanog per Miller I didn't
know what a difference having a high
vitamin D level would do from me until
now I've taken 10,000 IUS for some years
and felt a slight positive difference
but when I added the K2 and did the
higher dosage of
50,000 IUS per day for one month I've
stabilized at 25,000 IUS and continue to
feel the benefits after 2 years cured
fibroid uterine tumors in early 2014 and
I continue to experience no aches and
pains I keep my blood level at 150 which
is high normal I said you know look at
me I'm healthy as a horse in fact my
numbers are even better than they were
before right he says well I don't think
so I think there's a problem here we we
just I think we have to look at this
again I said look the fibroid is gone I
don't need to do a hysterctomy I don't
need to remove my you know my womb I
don't need to do anything you probably
need to start telling your patients
about this stuff why don't you read
about vitamin D actually there's a lot
out there so the other thing we're
facing is what they don't want us to
know about they love evidence-based
medicine and they said well doctor you
believe in evidence-based medicine and I
said well yeah but the problem is you
can't get at the evidence it's either
being censored or you put it behind a
pay Wall go down some rabbit hole of
Science and you're looking at something
and you finally get to the where the
meat of the matter is Boom it's locked
behind a payall unless I buy a $100 for
every article or whatever I can't get it
so I really think there's enough data to
seriously consider taking more vitamin D
as well as the co-actors to potentially
do some positive things about shrinking
fibroids but I think with a lot of
things in the news with scares about
vitamin D it's very important to get all
the details especially with the scare of
a toxic level of vitamin D and if you
haven't seen my video on the history
vitamin D that I think exaggerated the
toxicity levels you should check out
this video right here
