is it possible that your depression or
anxiety is coming from a missing microbe
in your gut this video is going to blow
you away I want to share some very new
and Powerful information on the gut
microbiome and it's association with
your overall mood and I have a dynamite
solution that I think you are going to
love and it's a whole recipe and I'm
going to walk you through it let's just
take digestive enzymes humans make 17
digestive enzymes the microbiome makes
over 60 digestive enzymes and these
microbes are the only thing that can
digest fiber we as humans do not have
the ability to break down fiber but
microbes do they take the fiber they
break it down into this certain fat and
that's called acetic acid that actually
helps feed the colon cells but there's
also another breakdown molecule that
mimics ketones called buic acid and one
of the biggest things that microbes do
in relationship to your mood is
contribute to the production of
neurotransmitters neurotransmitters are
like hormones but they travel through
the nervous system I'm talking about
serotonin dopamine Gaba 90% of all the
serotonin in your body is made in your
gut and so we have also a highway
between the gut and our brain it's
called the vagus nerve and it goes two
ways so in other words you can have
depression or anxiety if your gut is not
right and if you have have depression or
anxiety up here that will affect the gut
microbiome the gut microbiome also has
the ability to break down toxins
medications they turn certain
antioxidants in your food into other
amazing compounds that help us and what
I really want you to know about this
topic is that you have mostly good
bacteria okay and we also have some bad
bacteria that's kept in check by the
quantity of good bacteria over here and
the good bacter area maintain and
support the gut wall to prevent the bad
guys from crossing over and so what
happens when we have antibiotics
glyphosate that's an herbicide which by
the way it's in a lot of your Foods when
we eat junk Foods medications we go
through stress alcohol smoking pollution
all of that diminishes the microbiome we
get less neurotransmitters made we get
an alteration of the blood sugar but we
also get a migration of certain
pathogens that start TR traveling up
into the small intestine which is about
20 to 23 ft so normally we don't want a
lot of bacteria in the small intestine
and when these bad guys go up into the
small intestine there's competition of
nutrients so now we we develop nutrient
deficiencies we get small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth and then this leads
to more inflammation leaky gut allergies
inability to eat certain things all
right now I want to talk about something
very interesting the Doctor Who wrote
the book wheat belly and also a new book
called Super gut who I'm going to
interview shortly came up with the most
amazing protocol where you can actually
grow your own probiotics in a certain
dairy product but it's not even a yogurt
it's a super concentrated probiotic that
can do tremendous good for your body Dr
Davis found a way to grow a very
specific microb and I want to share a
little bit with you and then we'll talk
to Dr Davis himself first of all this
microbe has been highly studied quite a
few studies relate to how this microb
can lower depression and also if someone
is on an SSRI for a period of time
that's one of the side effects as well
so the good news is that there could be
a potential solution for that specific
problem so Dr Davis talks about this in
his book when you typically make yogurt
they usually ferment it for like 4 hours
so what Dr Davis did is he he found that
you have to ferment it for 36 hours and
to grow this specific microb you want to
use a certain temperature okay you want
to use body temperature which is 98.6
but we round it up to 99° fahr so what
Dr Davis has put together is a way to
kind of use a yogurt maker okay and
you're going to use a dairy product
which I'm going to demonstrate all this
and you're going to put a certain
microbe in there and then you're going
to feed it a little fiber which I'll
explain and then you're just going to
leave it at 99° for 36 hours and you
come back and it's going to be a very
delicious product and then he recommends
to take a half a cup a day now I've been
doing this and I've been taking it right
before bed wow I'll share the results
with you but let me just First Complete
talking about this micro first of all it
survives the stomach acids second thing
it releases a chemical that does not
affect any of the good microbes just the
bad and a lot of people get benefits by
taking antibiotics with their skin they
might get rid of like rashes and certain
infections like Thy in the eye and all
these things but of course they're using
a regular antibiotic and that comes with
a package well this is a natural process
that you don't develop resistance
against so that's just one thing it has
this chemical wipes out the bad guys in
the small intestine it also makes
oxytocin oxytocin is an amazing hormone
that does a lot more than we thought it
not only helps with like social bonding
but it really helps to lower cortisol
which is involved in anxiety and even
depression so it's an amazing stress
hormone there's been some interesting
anecdotal reports of increased muscle
mass great deep Delta wave sleep thicker
hair better younger skin but the main
thing is an overall better mood so let's
do this let's interview Dr Davis and
then I'm going to roll right into how to
make this amazing highly concentrated
probiotic that you can take every night
before you go to sleep or take it during
the day to help you with whatever you're
going through all right let's go to Dr
Davis right now how did you kind of
isolate or stumble on this uh very
specific microb I mean there's other
microbes but I think the the main one
you talk about a lot is the the L or
lactobacillus ruteri so can you tell me
a little bit about how you kind of
stubbled on that microb versus other
ones well it was real simple you know I
make most of my uh ideas by mistake by
making big blunders so so that's how I
came to the Wheat Belly idea Trying to
minimize the expression of small LDL
particles as you know the real cause for
heart disease not this nonsense about
LDL cholesterol so I saw people you and
I have a lot of success in helping
people regain health and so with wheat
grain and grain elimination sugar
elimination and a handful of common
nutrients that are lacking in Modern
Life and we see all kinds of wonderful
things like a reversal of type two
diabetes loss of fatty liver weight loss
Etc but it was clear that was incomplete
even when I added some basic microbiome
strategies like a high potency multi
species probiotic or Prebiotic fibers
and fermented foods I still saw some
residual problems for instance somebody
says my R arthritis is much better I got
rid of the biologic injections I got rid
of the prednisone but I'm still taking
the proxin uh as needed for occasional
mild flareups why so I looked for what
else was there was and I started
thinking about the hormon oxytocin I
don't even remember why there's a really
crazy set of Frankenstein
experiments being conducted conducted by
a woman named Arena Conboy she's been at
Harvard Stanford I think she's now at UC
Berkeley and she did something really
creepy they took an old rat and cloned
it so that they got a young rat that was
immunologically and genetically
identical and then connected their
circulatory systems yuck well then this
is called they called it heterochronic
parabiosis two times next to life well
lo and behold the old rat becomes young
and so they ask what's the what are the
mediators that work is ongoing but the
first mediator they isolated they're a
bunch of peptides the first mediator
that they isolated was
oxytocin the what people regard as the
hormone of love and empathy what some
ladies regard as the drug they get to
induce labor when they're pregnant at at
term delivery term
pregnancy well then an MIT group a
cancer group were exploring the
anti-cancer effects of lactobacilus
rodite and they discovered all kinds of
unexpected effects the first thing they
observed was that their fur in their
words became rich and
luxurious wow so they started doing all
kinds of crazy things to these mice like
inflicting wounds in their skin and
watched healing time cut by half they
watched old mice become young again so
for instance if you look at muscle
that's atrophied in older mice uh young
muscle cells come back their libido
their their uh mating behavior comes
back their the immune system is
Amplified in other words it changed they
even did this they did a crazy study
they gave two groups of mice a lousy
diet purposefully meant to mimic fast
food the mice that got just fast food
got fat and old and lost their hair
stopped mating they got old and
died mice who got same crappy diet but
with rorai stayed slender Rich fur mated
they stayed young until death so okay so
so this experiment with the mice I think
that was the missing point they gave
them a certain microbe Al rudai because
of because of oxytocin they wanted to
increase it they they they did but they
didn't set out to do just that they kind
of stumbled on that so like a lot of
things I do lot this was by accident so
they wanted to understand first of all
why that rich luxurion fur issue it
became clear they opened a whole
Pandora's box of effects well I got that
same microb it was available
commercially from a Swedish company but
it was available as tablets for infants
so very Teensy weeny doses so I I simply
reason let's ferment it as something
that looks like yogurt but we're going
to ferment it using prolonged
fermentation so rotari will you know as
you recall microbes don't have sex
there's no mommy daddy male female
microb they just double so
rotaride doubles every three hours at
human body temperature so I made yogurt
it's not yogurt of course it looks and
smells like yogurt but I used prolonged
fermentation uh I allowed 12 doublings I
performed something called flow
cytometry it's just a way to count
microbes and we get 300 billion so far
more about a thousandfold more than the
original tablets for babies I just
started talking about it gave to all my
neighbors I started eating it okay so
the question have is so when you um you
did you initially know how to do that or
did you just go uh okay let me try
something and I guess that didn't work
did you how did you know to ferment it
for 36 hours hit and miss
okay and then I did repeated flow
cytometry counts it became clear the the
number I first picked 36 hours was The
Sweet Spot that's where you get maximum
number at least as yogurt and if you go
to 48 Hours you get a plateau you
actually get an increase in dead
microbes so 36 hours which by the way is
very different than what they do in
commercial yogurt making which is yeah 6
to 12 hours it's ridiculous so so I
guess the reason um at first did you
think well I think we'll just take this
microb as a supplement right you were
you thinking at first like oh we'll just
take it and we it'll work just by taking
it you know you can but the the quantity
of in the original product which which
called bioag gastrous GA G R Us the
infant tablets so when you take it
nothing happens when I called the
company I talk to EXA I said hey I'm
playing with this yo this your your
tablet is making yogurt they said you
can't no one's ever made yogurt from it
and they said we don't know anything
about that MIT nonsense don't call us
again they essentially shut it all down
so I okay fine so I made the yogurt and
now we have thousands and thousands of
people doing it and the crazy thing is
so as as elegant as that MIT work was
we're learning new lessons both from
Human Experience and limited efforts in
clinical trials we're seeing all kinds
of things happen but you know what as
you know usually when you see stuff
happen in mice it's usually not
corroborated in humans it falls apart in
this instance to my great surprise
everything seen in mice has proven true
in humans wow so we see a restoration of
youthful musculature an increase in
strength guys older guys over 50 get
about a 50% rise in testosterone ladies
get arrest older ladies get a
restoration of vaginal moisture and
sensation there's an increase in libido
which leads some very embarrassing
stories uh there is uh I presumptive
increase in the immune respones people
seem to get better faster there's an
acceleration of healing from minor
wounds uh
and I tell this to ladies you know I'm
sure your audience is lot like mine my
audience is 87%
female they all say this to me
incredibly they say oh we don't care
about muscle and immune response we just
want better
skin I said what all right fine so I did
a little clinical trial on ladies big
ladies I said don't change your diet
don't change your exercise program just
take these that was roor ey I added some
other things to amplify the skin effects
collagen peptides hyaluronic acid and
the catenoid aisan and we did high
resolution skin ultrasound and we showed
a big increase in dermal thickness
ladies are thrilled because they lose
their crows feet and their lines blah
blah blah wow but I happen to measure
the waste circumference just it's free
you know I don't you and I don't have
the budget of farmer we don't have
billions of dollars to spend we had
maybe you know tens or hundreds of
thousands of dollars to spend in our
clinical trials so I measured waste
circumference free and to my great
surprise this is Christmas Eve I get the
waste circumference I said no way they
lost huge amount of waste circumference
up to eight and a half inches no change
in diet even more remarkably they didn't
L weight well how can that be well I
think consistent with the animal
evidence and what I'm seeing anecdotally
play out in thousands of people is you
lose abdominal fat but you restore
youthful muscle we're seeing that play
out so I think what we've St what I
stumbled on by accident this is H is a
way to shift body composition the
complete opposite by the way of these
garbage glp1 Agonist drugs yeah that of
course cause loss of huge loss of muscle
guarantees weight regain so a person has
a choice stop the drug and see your
health deteriorate when you regain all
the weight as fat or stay on the drug
forever and be held hostage by the
pharmaceutical Industries so I think I
think even one of your videos you
mentioned you personally gained how much
muscle mass so in my 60s in my 60s I
gained about 13 pounds of muscle and fit
my my strength increased by 50% uh and
you know I I mentioned to you in emails
I hate going to the gym I can't stand it
right so I go 15 minutes on a busy week
I go 15 minutes once a week I haven't
been to the gym in five months by the
way but I do other things but uh so
that's what I'm seeing now I don't know
if that happens to everybody I do see
ladies they get M mad at me they say hey
I'm doing your program in the RO and I
gained eight pounds I asked him have you
looked in the mirror have you measured
your waist I said well yeah my waist is
smaller my shoulders are firmer my
thighs and buttocks and neck are firmer
so presumptive we got to do this more
formally like do a dexa study or
something like that formally quantify
the shift and mus and all that business
but you know all we're doing though
right is replacing things that you
should have had in your body all along
every supposed to so I just wanted to
stop when at that one point what okay so
this microb obviously we were supposed
to have it initially and I'm guessing
some past antibiotic wiped it out or bad
food or something and I think I think
you mentioned even in your book or
another video that what percentage of
the population just doesn't have this
microbe anymore about
96% gosh so it is it is very susceptible
as our many lactobacilli to Common
antibiotics so if you took amoxicillin
30 years ago for an upper restur it
wiped out all your Rite what's so
fascinating about that is if we sequence
the microbiomes of somebody living in
the highlands of new Guinea or the
Brazilian Rainforest in the Amazon
people unexposed to antibiotics Etc they
all have Rite they all have if we
sequenc wild mammals like deer or
giraffes or lions they all have Ru I
suggesting it's necessary for Maman
Health it's us who've lost it the
original discover Dr Gard reuter said it
was everywhere in the 1960s he got it
from the breast milk of a German
breastfeeding mom and he found in stool
and other body fluids over his 40-year
academic career he found increasingly
difficult to find it started to
disappear and since then that's been
corroborated it's virtually disappeared
from the human microbiome and I think
that's why we're seeing such
over-the-top effects restoring something
people have lost and doing so at very
high counts
wow so so then what happens you lose
this microbe which also by the way tends
to protect against small intestinal
bacteria overgrowth right does a lot of
things in the small intestine too and
then it it probably because it's not
there then you start getting this
Invasion from the large intestine
climbing up to the small intestine is
that what happens too sometimes exactly
yes so loss of those beneficial species
this this species of lacts and others
allow the over proliferation of Proto
bacteria fecal microbes like Eola and
klebsiella that have taken up resonance
in uh virtually half US population so
it's it's probably the worst epidemic to
ever occur in our species and there's
there's there's there's science behind
that but um so we have 24 feet of small
intestine Infested by fecal microbes now
as you recall the small intestine is
very permeable that's where we absorb
nutrients so when those microbes that
live and die over just a period a few
hours they don't live very long they
release some of the components of their
cell walls such as the endotoxin
component and that gains access to your
bloodstream that's called endotoxemia of
course and that is a major driver of
weight gain dementia it's probably one
of the most important factors causing
multiple forms of cancer type two
diabetes cognitive impairment so in
other words it's G to cause us to re
reconsider virtually all human disease
in light of the contribution initiation
or exacerbation of endotoxemia so so
just on the topic of endotoxemia so
there's somehow some of these bad
microbes these pathogens they either
leak off or release um something
negative about that that then forms um
this infection that gets into the
bloodstream that starts creating a a
Cascade of bad
effects yes so you know people have
suspected this issue of gut leak for
many decades but it finally got
corroborated by Patrice KY and his
Belgian group in 2007 and since
corroborated numerous times since it is
a major driver it it it terrifies me to
think how we didn't know about this
thing the great thing about rori is so
most microbes colonize the colon only
right the large intestine
yeah the Rai colonize the 24 feet of
small intestine and the colon wow where
it takes up residence and does something
wonderful it produces what are called
bacteria sins natural antibiotics
effective against fecal microbes so the
loss of rorai probably was a big part of
the reason why this happened and
restoring rorai is a big part of the
solution to correct that problem so
we're seeing sibo recede via
normalization breath hydrogen
gas with restoration of lacil ride but
I've combined it with lactobacilus
gaseri because that's another big
bacteria producer and small intestinal
colonizer and then we've thrown in a
strain of basilla subtilus or suus
because of its extraordinary bacteria
and so far making yogurt yogurt out of
those three we get about 90%
normalization of breath hydrogen gas and
all the wonderful effects that accompany
that weight loss Plateau are broken
hemoglobin a whenc finally goes below
five all that kind of great stuff
happens just by restoring these Keystone
what I think are Keystone microbes via
something that looks and smells like
yogurt and also your sleep right and oh
I'm a chronic insomnia
terrible for decades with rorai I sleep
wonderfully not everybody gets that
maybe half the people get that and by
the way uh there are some other microbes
that have magnificent effects on sleep
another one is lactobacilus KCI churot
strain that's available as this goofy
little product called yakol it's a it's
an awful little product skin milk and
sugar uh but it's a good source of that
microbe and so as a chronic Insomniac I
take the ruite sleeping eight n hours
straight through rare Awakenings I add
the case C Shota as as yogurt and I
sleep 12 hours a night I had to stop it
because it was so overwhelming that it
varies among people you know but uh it's
it's and these are effects not yet
described in the scientific literature
so because we're experiencing it on a on
a large
scale you stumbled on something that's
so fascinating to me um because I'm into
the farming and the soil and the
microbes this is like but this is all
human body stuff I definitely want to
stay connected and and keep picking your
brain but um so there's a book that I
highly recommend everyone go out and get
it's um super gut and also I'm going to
put your website down below and you also
have a course uh I'll put some
information about um what the specific
microbe that you recommend because
there's different strains uh and you
have you figured out the right strain so
that's going to be really key to get
that I'll put that link down below but
wow this is huge I'm so interested in
this topic uh I'm just blown away but um
anyway I wanted to just pull you on and
and not take too much of your time but I
want to thank you for that data and uh
and also I'm gonna I'll just going to
roll right into next how to make this if
someone wants to make it and uh if they
want details uh they can go to your your
blog site how about that terrific yeah
you know my one of my interests is this
is all happening right yeah at a time of
record social isolation
course suicide is at record levels 36%
increase between 2
2020 and I did not know this the
psychology Community has been formally
measuring and tabulating the rise of
narcissistic behavior and that curve
looks like this 45 degree incline so now
we have a way perhaps we can't address
all social ills of course with yogurt
perhaps we can have an impact because of
the the restoration what I'm seeing is a
restoration of the intensity of love and
affection for other people desire for
human companionship increase in
generosity and the acceptance of other
people's opinions so that's my goal in
doing all this I think we can change
human behavior in a good way I can get
behind
that that's awesome well done thank you
so much thank you so this is very simple
how we make this we're going to take uh
the probiotic one capsule and then we
will open it
up and then we're going to take inulin
this is a
tablespoon take
two take organic half and
half just to make a paste mix it up
really good don't put too much of that
uh half and half in there right off the
bat just about two tablespoons and then
we can pour the rest of this half and
half in there one qu
I'm going to mix this up really good I'm
going to take a container two containers
We'll pour some of this in
here even it out pretty
good okay we're putting this mixture
into the yogurt maker we have two of
them right very carefully okay now we
have to add water to
it so I'm going to pour the
water like so
and I want that level to be at the same
level as
the mixture inside the containers we now
have the water at the level of a little
bit more than I wanted so that's fine
okay here's the next part and of course
if you have a different machine you're
going to have to just do the same type
of thing on the left we have temperature
and time so we can press this once okay
and then we want this at
99° F so we're going to bring this
down okay and then press start on that
and then now what we're going to do we
have eight hours we're going to go up to
36
hours okay and then we press start again
and guess what we're done we're going to
put the top on it and then we're going
to wait for 36
hours and then after that's done we are
going to then put it in the refriger
Ator for storage okay we're pulling out
of the refrigerator after 36 hours and
leaving in the refrigerator for a couple
hours to cool down and now we're going
to consume a half a cup of this every
single day it's amazing it's Rich it's
delicious you can add uh berries to it
if you need to add a sweetener uh go
ahead but I think you'll find it quite
delicious a half a cup a day
