hey guys I'm back we're going to talk
about phytic acid today it's actually
quite fascinating what it is and what it
can do for your health so I've been
doing some research lately on this and
I'm just literally blown away so check
this out
another name for fight against it would
be IP six inositol hexa phosphate which
basically combined six phosphates with
one inositol another name would be
vitamin B eight phytic acid forms a
storage system for phosphorus in plants
brand seeds nuts and grains when people
say that fiber is good for you and it
reduces cancer and etc what's really
creating the effect is this compound in
the fiber okay because it's in the brand
it's in the Hall etc phytic acid has a
strong affinity for minerals it binds
with calcium and iron and other minerals
so because excessive iron and excessive
calcium are very toxic to the body
phytic acid can act to regulate the over
mineralization of these two minerals so
it's actually very important it's also a
very very strong anti-cancer compound
and it's the most potent antioxidant on
the planet and being an antioxidant it's
also there to preserve the seed it's the
thing that allows a seed to last for
four hundred years without breaking down
and then when you germinate it or put it
into the soil it starts to grow so it's
actually quite interesting so I want to
touch on why this compound is
anti-cancer well because one of the
first things that happens in the chain
of events with cancer is destruction of
the mitochondria and the most powerful
oxidative free radical is called the
hydroxyl radical and one way it's
created is by adding iron or copper to
oxygen you create this very reactive
element that then can destroy the wall
of the mitochondria and this compound
phytic acid can make iron and copper
unreactive so it ends up neutralizing
this very reactive metal
other point is that you want to avoid
taking vitamin C in a supplement with
this because it lowers the effect and
you wouldn't want to take this if you're
anemic or are low and iron because it
will reduce some of the iron but most
people have too much iron and too much
calcium so this is a great way to help
balance these metals that have damaging
effect to the mitochondria and other
cells of your body all right I'll see
you in the next video so I want to know
what you're interested in as far as a
future video click the link down below
and share some ideas I want to hear
