alright guys I recently did a video on
why you need to consume vegetables okay
this is a continuation of that when not
to consume vegetables okay in the last
video just to quickly summarize you want
vegetables between 7 to 10 cups for this
reason one is to get the nutrients that
you need so vegetables provide the
nutrients especially potassium magnesium
also the fiber in the vegetables because
we're not doing grains feed the microbes
and microbes need this fiber to actually
survive and they will give you a
friendly acid it's called Peterik acid
that then feeds your colon that helps
normalize blood sugar 2 decreases
inflammation now final nutrients that
would be like carotenoids all the
phytonutrients lutein that go beyond
just regular vitamins and minerals that
give you additional health benefits ok
this is very very important and the
oxidants things like that also the
vegetables buffer the pH so if you're
just doing meat you're going to certify
things a bit too much and the vegetables
act as a great buffer for the pH so it's
not always so acidic alright now when
not to do vegetables well when you have
this condition called SIBO small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth ok what
is that that's a situation where your
microbes are not all located in the
large intestine the last part of this
huge tube that you have which is like 27
feet long I think it's like 31 feet long
the last part last five feet is the
large intestine that's where most of the
microbes should live but in SIBO you
have those microbes now living in the
wrong place they live into the small
intestine which is the the first part of
the tube okay so if you have these
microbes is called flora or microbiome
living in the small intestine when it
should be in the large intestine they
can compete for nutrients so basically
you're supposed to absorb all this
nutrient in the small intestine well
these bacteria will eat that up and keep
you deficient in nutrients so that's not
good you're going to have tremendous
amounts of bloating
because you're gonna have a lot of
excessive fermentation and gas being
created because this these microbes are
just in the wrong location so you get
nutritional deficiencies and then if you
add the fiber that just makes it worse
so if you're consuming vegetables and
you're getting so bloated and you're
getting your you feel like you're
gaining weight and you're retaining
fluid and you're getting gas then
chances are you could potentially have
SIBO you can actually get a test from it
okay or you can assume that you have it
and do the following which I'm going to
get to in a second another thing that
would make it worse would be if you
consumed a probiotic why because you
don't want to add more bacteria to a
place where you have too much bacteria
already because this is an overgrowth so
one of the reasons that you've got this
in the first place is your stomach
wasn't acidic enough or maybe you took
an antibiotic so you don't want to
consume vegetables or probiotics if you
have this situation I mean a real good
way just to know if you have it it if
you feel bad when you consume vegetables
then just avoid them for one month
let your body reset you can call this
the carnivore diet if you want whatever
but we're just basically eliminating
vegetables we're giving our body some
time to remove those bacteria from the
small intestine and push them down into
the large intestine so you'd want to
avoid vegetables in probiotics you want
to sit if I the stomach with episode of
vinegar and something called betaine
hydrochloride you can get those in a
combined product I put a link down below
to make it easier but you want to
acidify the stomach two reasons one is
that acid will allow for a lot better
digestion to occur at the beginning of
your digestion because the last thing
you want is incomplete digestion right
here so we have half undigested food
entering in the small intestine and then
we get more gas and more fermentation
and more bloating and we want to do
fasting why because the normal transit
time the time it takes for food to go
through your entire digestive system is
between 36 and
40 hours so if you're eating every hour
and a half the food is just being
crammed down there crammed down there
you never give your system a chance to
clear out so we want to do in a minute
fasting and even longer fasting if if
you can to let the body reset very
important I mean even the stomach alone
takes five hours or four to five hours
for the food to get through the stomach
so if you're eating like every two hours
or three hours and you're not waiting
long enough you're putting food in in
this tube through this little pipe when
the food is still in your stomach not to
mention the small intestine and large
intestine so we we constantly are
crammed and food down that we never let
a digestive system rest and then the
last thing is herbal antibiotics clove
oregano and garlic there's many other
ones but this is a really good
combination to help kill off the
microbes without the side effect okay so
this is what I'm going to recommend I'm
also going to put a link down below of
more additional data on SIBO down below
you can check that out but in this is a
situation where you're not going to be
vegetables but for everyone else I
recommend to actually add the vegetables
in there thanks for watching
you probably already subscribed but if
you haven't press this little button
down below and I will keep you updated
