okay we're back and we're going to talk
about itching on a ketogenic diet first
one is allergies so number one is it
possible that you could have a food
allergy so what I like to do is compare
what you were eating before to what
you're eating now and see if there's
anything different that you normally
don't eat and then omit that food to see
if the itching goes away and that's the
best way to determine if it's an allergy
or not because you don't just develop
allergies for no reason so there's a
some type of change some type of new
change the other question I would ask is
do you have a history of allergies in
general I had one lady come in and she
just blew up like a balloon and she had
pre-existing allergies and we found out
she was out allergic to so many foods on
the ketogenic diet she was just so
swollen from head-to-toe so we really
had to dig down to see what she could
eat and that was more difficult okay so
that's number one
number two it could be just a regular
adaptation side effect from ketosis
where your body is going through this
transition and this adaptation in this
case you want to make sure that you're
taking B vitamins and potassium so
nutritional yeast and electrolytes those
two usually will handle most of the
transition side effects going into
ketosis number three gallbladder and
liver if the liver or the gallbladder is
congested one of the symptoms is itching
okay so you'd want to see do you have
any symptoms of gallbladder or a
congested gallbladder or maybe even a
liver issue is you have a right shoulder
pain do you have bloating when you eat
under the right ribcage
do you paint next to the right shoulder
blade do you have any history of liver
issues if that's the case you want to
make sure your vegetables are very high
and your fats maybe aren't so high at
first gradually ease into it not to
overload the liver with too many fats
and of course we're also talking about
eliminating any hidden carbs so I
already assume that you're not consuming
that lastly it could be some of the
toxins being released from the fat cell
as you do the ketogenic diet you're
going to be releasing a whole bunch of
fat from the fat cells and guess what
toxins accumulate in the fat cells so
sometimes the toxins can come out we
circulate in the body and create kind of
a reaction so that could be a in which
case you would just make sure your
vegetables are very high and consume
bentonite clay on an empty stomach so
it's a it's a very inexpensive way to
clean up the body as the poisons come
through the body and if you get some
bentonite clay take it and it should
clear it up within hours actually so
these are the four things that
potentially can cause itching on a
ketogenic diet
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
