so another question from someone that
wanted to know how do I know I'm in
ketosis okay now they were using these
little strips urine strips to detect
ketones but here's the thing as you do
this over time your body is going to be
more efficient and you're not going to
have ketones anymore at some point why
because your body's using them as fuel
so our goal is not to always show
ketones in the urine the goal is to get
healthy right by doing healthy ketosis
and being very efficient in burning all
those ketones up so how do you know if
you're getting healthy how do you really
know if you're doing this correct how do
you know if you're being successful the
number one thing is your cravings are
the cravings gone completely then we
know it's working is your hunger a lot
less between meals how was your energy
is it going up then that's that's a
really good indicator and your waist
size okay is that shrinking very
important indicator because the other
point I want to make is that the maximum
amount of ketones you can produce in a
given day is a hundred and fifty grams
and basically that's about less than
half of your overall fuel now you're
only going to be burning a little bit of
glucose that you can make from the
protein you eat and even the fat that
you eat but the other fuel that you're
going to be burning is basically fatty
acids so it's not all just ketones
there's a combination ketones and a lot
of fatty acids okay so you're probably
not testing for fatty acids so the point
is that you want to focus on your health
and these are the indicators to know
that you're doing it successfully so the
goal is not to just have excess ketones
in your urine because that doesn't tell
the whole picture alright thanks for
watching
hey if you're interested in finding out
the underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quints
