hi guys listen I got this question and I
would just want to answer it for those
people that want to know like weight
loss versus men versus women why can men
lose more weight than women okay so
we're just going to talk about that for
a second basically it has to do with
just this one hormone right here well
actually two hormones this hormone this
hormone women have nine times more
estrogen than men okay and men have
sixteen times more testosterone than
women
estrogen puts the the fat layer around a
female body it gives the female
characteristics so especially in the
lower part of the body sometimes the
arms breast tissue that's all estrogen
so what happens with testosterone that
gives more lean body mass so you can see
where the problem is so women do need to
spend at least double the effort to get
the same result if not more effort to
get to the same results but there are
things you can do to speed things up
especially if you have too much estrogen
in the body which is called estrogen
dominance I'm going to put a link down
below but a lot of women have that
especially at menopause not because the
rest region is going higher because the
progesterone is going lower and the
testosterone is going lower making the
ratio of estrogen higher so then you
create estrogen effects and start
gaining more weight so there's a whole
bunch of things you can do about that
and then the adrenal gland also makes
estrogen too and progesterone so the
Drina gland backs up the ovaries so you
can see this is a whole hormonal you
know problem with that now they also
have estrogen dominance affecting the
thyroid so if there's too much estrogen
it's going to inhibit the thyroid
function now the thyroid controls your
metabolic rate for every single cell in
your body so you can imagine that not
not having that to full capacity can
really slow down your weight loss so we
want to minimize the deeper cause of a
thyroid issue and make sure that you're
not estrogen dominant so you can
actually lose weight fast
okay you won't necessarily want to
increase your testosterone because
you're gonna get facial hair and acne
and something called polycystic ovarian
syndrome but the other thing that will
help you is removing even a deeper
hormone that is can you raise this one
as well and that would be you guessed it
insulin okay so if you can actually
really work on that that will also help
the situation and speed things up I'm
going to put some links down below for
some more data but I just want to make
this very short and sweet it's really
it's not necessarily your fault it's
just that these hormones are slowing
things down okay alright thanks for
watching you know I just wanted to take
a moment out to thank you for your
amazing feedback that you guys are
giving me it's just mind-blowing
the successes the wins I created a link
down below so you can actually type out
your full success story and if you have
a before and after with weight loss that
would be awesome if you don't have a
success with weight but other things
just put an image of yourself and your
personal success story and I would love
to read it and also share it with others
so I want to just thank you in advance
for doing that but there's a link down
below fill it out and I can't wait to
read it
