hey Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about egg yolks so many
people when they tell me that they're
eating eggs they they're not eating the
Yol part they're eating the White and
the benefit of the egg yolk is huge and
I'm going to cover um three reasons why
you should start eating the egg yolk
it's actually in my book under eggs and
cholesterol I think the big concern with
people is that they're afraid of
increasing their cholesterol but the
fact is that egg yolks will only
increase the good cholesterol the
HDL and just to back up a little bit I
want to explain what HDL really is the
difference between the good cholesterol
HDL and the bad cholesterol really has
to do with the direction of where that
cholesterol is going in relationship to
the liver the cholesterol coming out of
the liver is considered good cholesterol
and the cholesterol going into liver is
considered bad so really if the if both
of these are high but the exchange is
balanced then all that means is your
body needs a little more cholesterol to
heal something because one of the
functions it acts as a natural Band-Aid
to heal different parts of the body when
you're under stress so you want to look
at the full picture not just the total
cholesterol and the relationship between
going out and going in and the fact is
that even HDL or LL those aren't even
that's not even cholesterol it stands
for high density lipoproteins
low density lipo proteins so they're
actually proteins that carry the
cholesterol either out of the liver or
in the liver so we're just want to look
at the exchange of those two but the
fact is that the egg yolk will increase
some cholesterol but only the good
cholesterol so you have nothing to worry
about there um egg yolks have way more
nutrition vitamins minerals than the egg
whites okay that's another interesting
point the other uh benefit of
cholesterol from the egg yolk is that it
supports hormones specifically cortisol
and other adrenal hormones so when
you're under stress the reason why the
cholesterol goes up is it needs more
cholesterol to build more of that stress
hormone um egg yolks might contain per
egg about 400 maybe actually it's 300
migs of cholesterol but don't be
concerned about that because your body
makes 2,000 milligrams of cholesterol
every single day so you can imagine how
many eggs you'd have to eat to equal
2,000 so the bottom line is that if your
body makes it and you eat some of it
it'll make less of it it adapts to that
so anytime anyone tells you that
cholesterol is bad all you have to do is
ask them why what's the purpose of
cholesterol and they they should know
that it supports hormones it's a natural
band to heal the body and it's a
precursor for
hormones and also ask them if it's so
bad why does your body make 2,000
milligrams of cholesterol every single
day so there must be a reason for that
all right so I just wanted to touch on
egg yolks and don't be afraid of eating
them it's actually a very healthy thing
to do
