did you realize that if you eat liver
and egg yolks you can actually improve a
fatty liver yeah let me explain
now beef liver or any liver for that
matter and I'm talking about grass-fed
not your commercial liver and egg yolks
have choline now choline is in the
family of B vitamins it's not really a B
vitamin because it works with the
complex but if you're deficient choline
that could set you up to actually cause
a fatty liver so choline is very
essential to keep the fat out of the
liver and other things can cause if I
deliver as well consuming too much sugar
refined carbohydrates especially
fructose alcohol will cause a fatty
liver a vegetable oils can cause a fatty
liver but the second cause of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a
deficiency of choline so the majority of
choline in the body is there to make
these membranes in the cell it's also
intimately involved in brain function so
if you don't have enough choline your
memory can suffer your mental acuity can
suffer also if a woman is pregnant and
they're deficient in choline you can
have problems with the brain development
so it's a choline is very important in
the nervous system the brain and
cellular membranes these are two other B
vitamins folate and b6 if you have
enough folate and b6 the need for
choline will be less if you're deficient
in folic acid and b6 you'll need more
choline but I do want to make a note one
of the best ways to determine if you
have a fatty liver is to take an
ultrasound of the liver and you can
actually pick it up real fast but a much
simpler way is just to look down if you
see that you have a gut chances are you
have a fatty liver so you want to start
consuming foods high in choline okay egg
yolks I consume four eggs every single
day I make sure that they're organic
pasture-raised not pasteurized
pasture-raised
very important I usually get my egg eggs
from the farmers market
liver liverwurst I put a link down below
of a great company us wellness meats
that has an incredible liverwurst that
has also not not just
liver grass-fed but it has heart and
kidney as well poultry meat in general
cruciferous vegetables so for those of
you that don't like liver or you're
vegan you can consume more cruciferous
vegetables to get your choline peanuts
however I don't recommend peanuts you
could have a little bit but you want to
do more like almonds pecans pistachios
things like that because there's some
other problem with peanuts but peanuts
do have choline and dairy so if you were
to consume some grass-fed cheese that
would have choline as well so even
though this is contour intuitive because
it goes against what we're taught you
know all these fatty foods you would
think that that turns in the fat in the
liver it doesn't because you're not
consuming the sugars and refined carbs
so anytime you consume these foods you
never want to consume them with sugar
and refined carbs because that's going
to create the problem but in the absence
of sugar and excessive carbohydrates
these are fine and it actually it's
going to improve your choline and
decrease the fat and your liver I'll put
some links down below thanks for
watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
