[Music]
hey guys in this video we're going to
show you how to make something called
well we've done the candied pecans but
this is different this is a spiced nut
mix and it's made with pecans and
almonds and I added walnuts because I
love walnuts mm-hmm and this is
different it has a little bit of sweet
to it but a whole lot of savory like
cardamom you might have a little chili
pepper to it I love it it's really
simple you can whip them up in just a
minute and it's great for company or
it's just great for putting an ice cream
not snacking with your meal right yeah
right
so you put these in salads right can put
them on salads love nuts on this is
really good how do you feel about pecans
I love them
are they your favorite no no they are my
absolute favorite now okay good well
it's good that they know that absolutely
okay Ellis is batty
about nut let's make but let's just make
them okay okay
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
