hi guys dr. Burke here in this short
video I want to talk about the best
remedy for a hemorrhoids okay if you
have hemorrhoids it's very uncomfortable
it's basically a dilated inflamed vein
on the bottom part of your rectum or on
the inside that that's very painful and
it's very uncomfortable and you can even
have rectal bleeding so the best remedy
is : Soniya root okay you can get this
anywhere you can even get it in a tea
but I would recommend it in a capsule
what is : Sonia wrote do it basically
puts the tone back in your vein so it
increases venous tone increases
circulation it's also good for
laryngitis and sore throats okay but
this is the remedy that I would
recommend for hemorrhoids in addition to
the deeper causes of this which would be
mainly related to the vitamin C complex
so typically people can have this from a
mechanical like giving birth with all
that pressure or it could be from a lack
of vitamin C because you're not having
vegetables over a period of time and
then the arteries and veins tend to lose
the tone okay that could be a deeper
cause or it could be coming from a
mechanical situation like pregnancy but
this is the remedy that you need go
ahead and take it and put your comments
below press the subscribe button press
just press this button right here
subscribe okay that one right there just
do it right now press the subscribe
button and I will keep you updated on
the future events
