hi guys dr. Burke here in this video I
want to talk about a new booklet I just
released called it's not lose weight to
get healthy it's good healthy to lose
the weight now this is a very powerful
principles that's why I put in an entire
booklet just on this one principle but
there's 54 pages ok this is this is like
a companion guide to the new body type
guide so it's a summary of it and it's a
quick read and you can get both of these
on Kindle so I put a link down below but
let me just explain what this is all
about I also talked about intermittent
fasting these two powerful tools that
you can use to lose weight and fix one
of the biggest problems and America
nowadays which is insulin resistance
I believe that insulin resistance is
underlying the majority of health
problems in the u.s. probably the world
and I explain why I have a lot of
graphic illustrations in here it's a
quick read and I try to make it as
simple as possible ok the cool thing
about this is it shows you amounts in
picture forms so we take a look at the
amounts of salad you need it talks about
key to adaptation putting all together
what to eat 20 percent protein
75 percent fat 5% carbs so I show you
what that looks like I'll show you what
the meals look like okay for a three
meal per day example to a two meal a day
example so you could visualize what that
is and then a huge Q&A section to answer
a lot of details ok so this is a great
little quick read if you really want to
jump in and get started then you can
fill in the details with this book which
covers everything you would ever want to
know it's like the the Bible of weight
loss but doing it healthy but I wanted
to just kind let you know the Kindle
version is out I'll put a link down
below so check it out
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press this little button down below okay
thanks
