if you had a choice between eating
some Kellogg's Corn Pops okay
or eating the box that came in which one
would be considered healthier go ahead
and comment down below I initially
thought it would be the box but
apparently I'm completely wrong because
there was a recall a few years ago on
four Kellogg's cereals we got Corn Pops
we got honey smacks Fruit Loops it's
spelled
f-r-o-o-t so it's not actual fruit
because there's no fruit in it and Apple
Jacks so they recalled 28 million
boxes of cereal that's a lot of cereal
so first thing is it kind of got my
attention is I'm like
that's just four cereals that they
recalled right that's not all the cereal
that they have out there and then if you
go to the grocery store this might be a
shocker and I'm being very sarcastic
they have an entire aisle okay in the
grocery store dedicated to
cereals incredible so what does this
tell me it tells me that there's a lot
of kids or adults eating cereal to have
that much cereal and the bigger surprise
was that there's really nothing in the
actual cereal that they did a recall on
it was actually in the Box apparently
there was some and they described it as
this uncharacteristic off flavor in
smell that had a metallic smell to it
which possibly could create but only
temporary some nausea and diarrhea in
some people and it is true that when you
eat things part of the box that came in
does end up in your body now the other
thing that's interesting when I was
reading up on this is that Kellogg's had
a little history and apparently it
started out as being somewhat a health
food because it used certain fiber
extracts and at that time didn't have
all this extra sugar so apparently it
did help some people but it was the
initial intention was
to create a healthy product and then as
I was reading this it went on to say a
commitment that continues today and that
kind of threw me off because I don't
know I just assume that everyone knows
that cereal is not a health food but
apparently it's promoted as something
that's healthy and I just found that
interesting and I wanted to create this
video on this just to kind of take a
look at how this product is promoted I
wanted to know how can they possibly
justify something that is ultra
processed as a processed food I mean
it's not just processed food it's Ultra
processed food with added sugars in fact
it is the second source of calories for
kids with added sugar so I wanted to see
how they Justified it well they said
that they removed the trans fats you
have to know that trans fats are the
partially hydrogenated oils right when
you continue to cook
and process this oil
under high Heats
it then becomes fully hydrogenated
So you you're not going to have trans
fats in fully hydrogenated oils only in
the partially hydrogenated but from my
viewpoint going from a partially
hydrogenated to a fully hydrogenated
does not increase the health of that oil
so they did say they reduce this sugar
which we'll take a look at and they
reduce the sodium right because everyone
knows that sodium is dangerous and they
added more nutrients of course in the
form of synthetics and they also added
more fiber in the form of whole grains
they actually even said that this cereal
is nutrient dense I'm not kidding okay
because of the added synthetic vitamins
that they added it became now this
nutrient dense foods but if you look on
the label I'm still trying to figure out
what is nutrient dense about that
because the percentages are still very
small and they actually even claim this
based on this one study it can decrease
the risk of obesity and being overweight
now how can they possibly claim that
well if you look at the study it's based
on this one observational study right
which is not very credible but this
study is based on a single 24-hour
dietary recall so just asking the
parents what did your child eat in the
last 24 hours
and then they just kind of correlated
that with that's probably what they're
eating on a regular basis well there's
no way you can figure out what a child
eats just based on one day it's not
going to figure out the dietary pattern
plus it involves recall and remembering
exactly what they ate and allow these
kids go to school and about 30 of their
calories comes from the food at school
and so the parent doesn't always know
what they ate at school but that's what
they base this claim on this one
observational study with a 24-hour
remembering what the child ate they also
claim that it can contribute
to an overall healthy dietary pattern of
eating
which is so bizarre to me and if you
restricted to cereal it can actually
lead to an overall reduced intake of
nutritious food
with unintended consequences I'm still
trying to scratch my head on how can
they possibly say that well I've never
seen so many lies in one paragraph in my
life because the real consequence of
getting this out of the diet would be a
greatly improved body a child that has
more focus a better mood a child that
doesn't gain all this weight a child
that doesn't develop metabolic syndrome
or blood sugar issues so then if you
look at the label of Corn Pops right
this is what the ingredients are corn
sugar corn syrup hydrogenated soy oil or
cottonseed oil wheat starch in synthetic
vitamins and this is interesting because
one cup of this cereal is 27 grams of
carbohydrate but only nine grams of
sugar with zero fiber
so wait a second here we have this
refined carbohydrate and it has a lot of
carbohydrates in it but it's not all
sugar so what's making up the rest of
that carbohydrate it's not fiber even
though they're kind of talking about how
great their food is because of all the
fiber that's in it well zero grams of
fiber and one gram of protein what are
these carbohydrates well it's starches
right so a starch is slightly different
than a sugar a sugar is kind of like
broken down into a smaller carbohydrate
but starches have these chains of
additional sugars that are attached and
sometimes there's various loopholes with
adding maltodextrin and even some of the
corn syrup solids of putting them under
the category of a carbohydrate not the
sugar even though it behaves like a
sugar right it can break down in Sugar
pretty quick but legally they don't have
to kind of claim all those sugars if
it's less than one gram now let's take a
look at Fruit Loops right we have whole
grain yellow corn flour we have sugar we
have wheat flour we have whole grain oat
flour and then they add the modified
corn starch then they added the high
hydrogenated oil the soy oil and then
they also add maltodextrin like I
mentioned before and then another source
of fiber is the corn soluble fiber which
is a new kind of a synthetic fiber
because it's so processed and then they
add red 40 yellow five and blue one
these are food colorings all right now 3
4 of cup not even one cup
is 24 carbs 2 grams of fiber now again
there's not a lot of fiber in these
cereals so then we have 10 grams of
sugar and one gram of protein So based
on all this information
my conclusion is the box is much
healthier to eat than the actual cereal
what do you think about this go ahead
and calm it down below I just want to
say the best food for a child if you're
going to feed a child breakfast
would be eggs if you have not seen this
video on eggs you should check it out I
put it up right here
