hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about vitamin b1 and diabetes okay
so people that are a diabetic type 1 or
type 2 are severely deficient in vitamin
b1 in fact pre-diabetes like insulin
resistance those cases are also very
deficient in vitamin b1 because vitamin
b1 is the main cofactor like the helper
vitamin for the enzymes related to
carbohydrate and glucose metabolism it's
involved with glucose and sugar it
supports the myelin sheath that's the
outer sheath around the nervous system
so when your sugar is too high and you
don't have enough b1 because this gets
depleted and it gets altered you can't
absorb it as much then you start losing
this sheath or protective lining around
the nerve then you start to notice that
tingling in your feet pain burning and
the fingertips and that's the loss of
myelin because the b1 is not there to
protect the nerves and build the nerves
b1 supports the inside of your arteries
that little lining called the
endothelium so if you don't have b1 you
have all sorts of damage in the artery
wall which can't then could lead to a
cholesterol buildup a clot a stroke and
cardiac I which is basically just heart
disease so b1 supports the nerves in the
eye especially the retina that is why so
many diabetics have problems with vision
a vitamin b1 deficiency will also create
edema or that's swelling around your
ankles and your feet and even swelling
around the eyes a b1 deficiency will
also cause sleep apnea and another big
problem that a b1 deficiency can create
is a problem with something called the
autonomic nervous system that is the
part of the nervous system that is
working in the background an automatic
that controls a lot of your organs and
if that system becomes dysfunctional you
start getting sweating on the hands the
palms you might get out of shower and
just break out in a sweat increase pulse
rate a skin allergy when you scratch
your skin you see that little white
welting like a histamine reaction that's
a b1 deficiency and a DD
attention-deficit disorder
I mean how many kids that you know have
this problem and maybe we haven't had it
bad enough to develop all these yet but
they're starting to show signs early why
because Vout
B deficiencies are very very common not
just with adults but children as well so
this is how you create a b1 deficiency
start consuming a lot of refined
carbohydrates in the form of bread pasta
cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes start consuming sugar start
taking diuretics alcohol white rice
flour products fructose like in high
fructose corn syrup sulfites stress will
do it medication gastric bypass all of
these will create a b1 deficiency and
having high blood sugars being a
diabetic also creates a b1 deficiency so
the need for vitamin b1 goes up
considerably so if I was a diabetic or a
pre-diabetic I would consume more b1 to
actually help make up the damage the
best source of b1 is nutritional yeast
not synthetic b1 get it in a whole
complex and make sure it's non fortified
because they always add the synthetic
vitamins in there alright thanks for
watching hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
