hey dr. Berg here again in this video
we're going to talk about autoimmune
conditions it's a very complex situation
for most people there's there's
basically autoimmune is the body is
developing antibodies which are things
immune wise that attack your own tissue
so it's kind of like having an allergy
to your own tissues so if you had
autoimmune of the thyroid gland it would
call it be called Hashimoto's where the
your cells your immune cells are killing
off your own thyroid in there creating
inflammation or if you have another type
of thyroid condition it's called Graves
where your body is attacking itself or
sarcoidosis where your body's has
antibodies against your lungs or you
have MS multiple sclerosis where you
have antibodies against your own nervous
system or lupus against the connective
tissue and your in your body or
rheumatoid arthritis you have enemies
against your own joints or Cushing's you
have antibodies against your own adrenal
glands so I want to just kind of take
this complex problem and dissect it one
of the things that I do for complex
problems is I'll take one piece of the
problem and I'll try to figure it out
and then usually that will help me look
at other areas of the problem so we
eventually the whole thing could be
understandable so all I want to take one
little piece of the autoimmune and try
to understand it more so let's just take
one point about the autoimmune
conditions if you take any oven any
autoimmune conditions which i've had
hundreds and hundreds of people come in
with autoimmune conditions and it always
ask them when did it start to get the
clue and they always tell me it happened
after a stress event and I found it very
interesting usually after a loss of a
loved one a divorce a severe injury a
loss of a job so so it's it's definitely
triggered by a stress thing okay so
stress can activate autoimmune I've
never found a condition where they
didn't have
some something like that and losses are
a thousand times more stressful than any
physical trauma that could ever be
that's why people can get stuff stuck in
a loss for many many years and grieve
and grieve and cry and things like that
so it's very very very stressful okay
now number two how our autoimmune
disease is treated well one of the most
common treatment they use is cortisol or
prednisone what is that
that's adrenal hormones so now we have
two situations we got stress and what's
treated with the adrenal hormones what
is what what Glen the stress effect on
the body of the adrenals so really those
losses those stressful events severely
damaged the adrenal gland the treatment
for autoimmune is adrenal hormones well
right there now we're starting to
unravel this mystery and make this a
little bit less complex now let's get
into because the autoimmune conditions
are immune related let's take a look at
what controls your munis tum' what parts
of your body well you have the thymus
gland you have the spleen you have the
bone marrow you have the gut but did you
know the adrenal gland controls the
immune system as well
yeah the adrenal gland controls the
white blood cells in fact I'm reading
right now
biological actions of the adrenal
hormone cortisol it says that the
adrenal glands release antibodies from
the from the lymph nodes and they create
a decrease if they're the Drina glands
are over working they will create an
overall decrease in anybody production
interesting and also when you have a
dysfunctional adrenal you will lose the
barriers to the immune system and it
makes your body more susceptible that's
interesting so based on these three
things
autoimmune conditions are really adrenal
situations even though they affect the
and tissues so when people have
Hashimoto's for example they'll start
treating the thyroid but they never look
at the adrenal they never look at the
stress part of this when I think about
adrenal I'm really thinking just think
about stress accumulation of stress in
the body so I think really what causes
autoimmune is the stress state which
then causes the adrenal gland to
dysfunction and causes a loss of control
of the immune system because it lowers
your susceptibility and all sorts of
things can happen when you do that
because you have no more barriers to the
immune system so you could have microbes
come out viruses come out of remission
and just hammer that gland and you can
have all sorts of dysfunctional things
so that's my two cents on what causes
autoimmune now what I'm going to
recommend for you if you have an
autoimmune condition is do an experiment
on yourself talk with your doctor in and
start to go in the direction of
improving your own body stress and just
see what happens to your condition see
if you could put this condition back in
remission because a lot of these
conditions can go in remission which
means they're more viral start to do
things to improve stress rather than
treat the condition directly with drugs
and things like that just my
recommendation you don't have to do it
but I'm just telling you that I've seen
good success with instead of treating
the condition reducing the stress state
changing the environment doing things to
get over that loss of a loved one and
you may find that these conditions
greatly improve okay so I hope that
helped you I will see you in the next
video
