hey Dr Burg here in this short video
we're going to talk about weat grass
weat grass is probably one of the most
nutritious things that you can consume
it has all the vitamins fat C of
vitamins minerals trace minerals which
are very hard to come by
enzymes phytonutrients these are
actually give you more uh health
benefits than regular vitamins minerals
and chlorophyll which is the blood of
the plant in other words it it contains
a similar chemistry to our own blood but
it has uh magnesium instead of iron so
it's really good as a blood Builder and
weat grft is used in many chronic
conditions and many uh methods of trying
to get healthy um but I use a company
that um has a unique processing um uh
plant that they do bioactive dehydration
which basically means that they use very
very low heat and that's important
because we want to preserve the enzyme
content because heat kills the enzyme so
they nothing ever exceeds 106 degrees
and they spray dry it so it dries within
4 seconds to 4 minutes uh so you retain
the maximum nutrition and the color and
the flavor which I'm going to show you
in a second uh virtually identical to
the fresh juice so basically it's kind
of you just add water and then drink it
and it's just like you juic it but again
the type the the weat grass that I use
is not weat grass powder like a lot of
products but it's wheat grass juice
powder highly concentrated if you took a
tray about 8 18 in x 12 Ines and you
took that grass and you Juiced it and
then you took the powder from it that
would be about one teaspoon of powder
and that equals the nutrition of about 4
lbs or more of vegetables so it's
incredibly nutrient dense so not only is
the processing of it amazing but it's
grow grown in ancient seabeds which are
basically it's a desert in Utah where
they have all these trace minerals and
so this weak grass pulls those minerals
and converts them into plant-based trace
minerals so you have a really amazing
product it's very very satisfying when
you consume this so and it's hard
harvested at Peak nutrition time so it
goes about I'd say 4 in and then it's
processed so you get the maximum
nutrition so not only does it processed
correctly but it's grown correctly so
let me kind of show you what it looks
like so check this out this is the weak
crass I'm just going to open this here
you have to check this out it's
sealed like look at that stuff it's so
dark green so
aromatic it's amazing so we're going to
take a teaspoon of this a teaspoon of
this is
about about 18 in by 12 in of of wheat
crass juice in one teaspoon so this is
like 4 lbs of vegetables right here I'm
just going to put a little water you
could put it in more water but I'm just
going to put a little water cuz I like
to just take like a shot of it now
because I did not want to put any of the
binders or chemicals there is nothing
else in there other than we craft so
there are a little clumps and you have
to kind of mix a little
bit but it's pure
so we'll just kind of go around like
this a little
bit okay so it looks like
that
okay yeah so this is
amazing so it's very satisfying it's
very um it's not bad tasting it's not
like bitter or anything it's a little
sweet a little tastes a little bit like
barley but it's actually weat crass I
don't really like weak grass juice but
this I can I can take and it's like you
can feel tingling like your like your
organs are happy now so check it out and
I will see you in the next
video
