hey Dr Burg here this video we're going
to talk about the problem with being a
vegetarian now I'm not against uh
vegetables at all in fact I consume more
vegetables than a veget most vegetarians
that I know but there's some points I
want to bring up about this because it's
not as easy to do as you would think
number one most vegetarians are really
grain itarian when I talk about them
they don't even have very many
vegetables they're consuming all these
breads pasta cereal crackers biscuits uh
and thinking that it's healthy uh or
artificial Meats like uh these burgers
made from soy and things like that
that's like very very unhealthy so if
you're becoming a vegetarian to become
healthy then make sure that you do it
with actual vegetables okay but you
might have to add beans you might have
to add wild rice you might have to add
lentils you might have to add
nutritional yeast there are ways to do
it but if you are an adrenal case or a
diabetic what happens is your body is in
a state of H A catabolic state I'm going
to explain what that means it catabolic
is a word to describe that um your body
is breaking down its own protein um so
you have the opposite word which is
anabolic which is building back up
protein like after uh you would work out
the body would build back up protein but
then you have the breakdown of protein
in your muscle which is called catabolic
so when you're an adrenal case or you're
diabetic your body is breaking down
muscle protein faster than it's building
back up and so you get a lot of atrophy
especially as you as you get into your
40s and 50s and go through
menopause so I've have people that
become a
vegetarian and they're in this state
their adrenal cases or diabetic and they
crash and burn they might even lose
their hair they might lose their teeth
they don't feel well they have blood
sugar issues so you have to have good
adrenals to be able to handle being a
vegetarian because the amount of uh
protein that you might need to heal the
body so it's it's difficult getting
Protein that's the big problem become a
vegetarian so um because the amino acids
are not as plentiful in a a vegetable
versus um a meat or an egg or a cheese
something like that okay so that's
number two like the purpose of food is
really to get our nutrients whether it's
vitamins
minerals um essential fatty acids which
again it's hard to get with this because
essential fatty acids you can get them
from flax but they have to be converted
into what our body uses you but mainly
we get them from fish oil or fish um or
grass-fed eggs or grass-fed beef things
like that so it's it's possible but it's
not easy to get okay so the definition
of food is to get our nutrition so
whether we get vitamins minerals
essential fatty acids or amino acids um
at the end of the day you have a lot of
variety of foods that you can get these
nutrients from you wouldn't necessarily
have to get them from one type of food
but that is the goal of food is to get
our nutrients so whether you are
vegetarian getting them from vegetables
or getting them from some other source
this is the goal so this kind of clears
up the confusion of what diet should I
be on well you should be in a diet that
provides all the nutrients and believe
it or not not that I consume organ Meats
but organ Meats have the most nutrition
of any food on the planet but I just
can't eat them I think I was forced to
eat liver as a child so I cannot eat
that I don't eat brains I don't eat
kidneys but in the olden days they did
do that and I'm not against that but I'm
just making a point that those foods
have a lot of nutrition all right so
these are the problems number one
consuming non-vegetable sources if
you're an adrenal case you better have
some protein whether it's some eggs or
cheese or um a little bit of chicken or
something uh because you may get worse
if you
don't um and then the other thing is
just make sure if you're going to be a
vegetarian make sure you get you know
how to do it and you don't just wing it
make sure that you steud up on it and
get all of your prot proteins uh maybe
from PE protein or hemp protein whatever
okay so that is my two cents and I will
see you in the next video
