hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about intermittent fasting and
hunger
hunger is one of the best indications to
know if you're in keto adaptations ok
your body's fully in fat-burning now
typically it's okay to be hungry as long
as you're not severely hungry with a
bunch of other blood sugar symptoms like
lightheadedness dizzy irritable sugar
cravings brain fog that's hypoglycemia
if you have severe hunger with these
other symptoms then you have to change
some things you're going to have to
probably add a meal you're not quite
there you have to back off a little bit
you know some people like jump right in
and they're having that 20 hour fasting
with a 4-hour eating window they're not
ready yet you have to graduate into that
and it takes time to adapt your body but
if you can just go a long period of time
and not have a crash and burn then we
know that you're fully adapted in and
you just ride the way because it's
working nicely but if you have the
symptoms you have to slow it down you
have to add more fat with a meal
probably add a meal space that a little
bit more so you're not fasting as long
so it's all about it it's all a timing
thing and everyone is so different so
you just have to do it see what happens
and then kind of create your meals based
on just before you you crash and burn
a couple things if you're in this
category if you're not adapted yet add
electrolytes the electrolyte powder I
have works really well because it has a
lot of potassium and potassium fixes
insulin resistance so it will help you
greatly it doesn't just that potassium
as all the electrolytes and then bone
broth is another really good thing to do
while you're fasting just to give you
the electrolytes from bone and other
properties it's not a bad idea it's kind
of like a it's like soup without
anything in it but nutrition again add
the fat and then you might want to add
another meal okay and don't forget to
keep the vegetables high because if
you're just doing protein and fat and
you without the potassium it's you're
not going to be able to correct the
insulin dysfunction okay so I just
wanted to differentiate this one point
and just so you can you know judge by
where you're at and what you need to do
put your comments below press the
subscribe button and I will keep you
updated on the future events
