hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna talk about dairy-free keto
okay a lot of people have allergies to
dairy or there are lactose intolerant to
have a true allergy it has to involve a
protein so the protein in dairy is
casein and whey so you can have an
allergy to either one if you're lactose
intolerant and then you don't have the
enzyme to digest the milk sugar okay or
you could be sensitive to the quality of
the dairy
there's hormones in there that your
body's reacting to a lot of dairy most
of it is fed with grains that are GMO so
there's a lot of problems with dairy
okay personally I do very well with raw
milk cheese that's grass-fed it's
organic from Europe okay I can do that
all day long not a problem so you may
want to test the waters and see if you
can tolerate that the worst cheese in
the planet is Velveeta cheese okay or
processed cheese American cheese it is
so filled with stuff that you don't want
to consume okay but you may want to test
the waters with grass-fed organic cream
for example or grass-fed whole cream you
may be okay with that
but let's just say you're not you have
to have alternatives your alternative is
basically coconut oil coconut milk
coconut cream you can use that they had
coconut cream for your your coffee you
can use coconut oil and different keto
bomb or keto cookies you can make those
alright you have the nut butters you
have the avocado you have olives olive
oil nuts seeds animal fats ghee now if
you are lactose intolerant or allergic
to the protein in dairy you probably
will be okay with G because G is called
clarified butter it's basically the fat
they take all the solids out of it so
they take all the protein the sugar out
of it and you're just left with the pure
fat okay you may be totally okay with
that in which case that would be a great
fat to consume but a lot of people are
also sensitive
two nuts okay so that's that complicates
thing because if we have to then take
away the nuts or the nut butters then
we're left with let's see one two three
okay
maybe four Thanks so it's tough now if
you are not doing dairy can't do nuts
and you're vegan that leaves us without
this one right here and this one right
here so now you're left with just a
couple of things you can do so it makes
things more difficult but there's always
something that you can use as a
substitute but the point is that you
just got to be creative to find some
alternative fats on keto because there's
no way you can do this on a low-fat diet
alright thanks for watching hey before
you go definitely sign up for my free
keto course I put a link down below it's
on messenger in Facebook but it will
give you all the basics it's very quick
it's like three or four videos and it's
free check it out
