knowledge Doc is a nutritionist and
chiropractor specializing in healthy
eating and Alternative Healthcare more
broadly he has published over 6,000
videos and amassed 13 million followers
on YouTube and has trained over 2500
doctors and Healthcare practitioners and
how diet can impact your health when you
reduce carbohydrates it then forces your
body to go after your own fat as fuel so
for weight loss it's great and for other
things it's good too in this episode we
discuss his approach to health from
superfoods to intermittent fasting and
get his thoughts on Bobby Kennedy as HHS
secretary I think if if we are going to
make some changes we have to first of
all make people aware of these hidden
ingredients and start to get them out of
your diet this is American thought
leaders and I'm Yan
Kell Eric Berg such a pleasure to have
you on American thought
leaders well I'm really happy to be here
I've watched your show for many years
and so thank you for having me on
well so let's talk about disease and
health in America we spend here in
America an incredible amount per capita
on Healthcare but the outcomes compared
to the amount that's actually being
spent seem pretty low now why is that
yeah you're you're right because we
spend 4.5 trillion and we have the worst
Health you know I think that I'd like to
just kind of give everyone a a bird's
eye view of what I think the situation
is because it's really kind of simple
simple when you step back and look at it
it's like on the on one side you have
big Pharma okay they're helping provide
the solutions to our medical problems
and on the other side we have big food
or the junk food and they're both kind
of funneling down this way and right in
the middle you have the medical
establishment the system that we're
operating off right now and the Paradigm
Shift basically if you want to get
healthy you just take this pill for your
symptom but if we look at The Chronic
disease most of that comes from our diet
and alra processed food calories it's
the junk food right that's the majority
of problems so when you look at it these
medications are basically treating the
symptom of the junk food we don't really
bring up the diet in that consultation
with the doctor when the doctor
evaluates someone they're not really
diving into what they eat when I was in
practice in Alexander Virginia for 30
years I would um I would all day long
the first question I would ask is what
are you eating someone came in with a
problem whatever it is when did it start
what did you eat just before that I had
a patient who went to several doctors
including the emergency room and spent
out of pocket $40,000 for her heart
problem she had angina and uh no one
asked her like what did you eat just
before you had the symptoms it was a
series of really bad Banana Splits right
in like every day for like 3 days in a
row and all I had to do is is just
change her diet and all that angina went
away they couldn't find anything on the
test and defined for me junk food
because I actually think that might mean
different things for different people in
order to Define junk food you really
have to Define what food is first to
compare it because it's kind of hard to
talk about junk food without knowing
what food is food is that which is eaten
to sustain energy the growth and repair
of tissue nourishment that's what the
Latin word for food means if if we
compare that to other things that we're
eating like junk food can junk food
actually sustain life can it repair our
bodies can it help us grow the answer is
no you're taking a food that's so
refined so processed so dead there's
nothing else in it they take all the
nutrients out of it they put a couple
synthetic vitamins in there you have a
lot of byproduct and chemicals it's so
refined it just can sit on the shelf for
a long time is that food I don't think
it is junk food is is not food it's
something else and it's composed of
mainly three things we have the refined
sugars the refined seed oils and the
refined starches which is basically
hidden sugars and of course that's like
the main three ingredients but then
there's food coloring and then there's
flavorings that you add on to it you
have preservatives so if you look at the
ingredients of a lot of these Foods it's
the same ingredients with the different
flavors different colorings different
packaging if over 50% of the population
is consuming junk food adults and over
63% of teenagers are consuming these
Ultra processed foods then how we're
going to be able to create Health you
can't this is really at the root of
chronic disease we're not eating things
to sustain life and this is why we have
the chronic
illness let's talk a little bit about
these 30 years that you were in practice
I understand you were a chiropractor uh
primarily but then of course you uh sort
of branched out from there
um can you give me a picture of that
please I had no intention of kind of
getting into what I what I am to now
because I I I would
literally eat pure junk food all the way
up until I was like 28 years old and uh
I got away with it for so many years but
then it caught up with me but the only
thing green that I ate I think was
pistachio ice cream and lime green
Jello-O but other than that I never ate
a vegetable never ate anything healthy
and so I was going along and uh getting
away with it until started getting in my
20s and all of a sudden I was like
arthritic in my fingers and my back I
had chronic fatigue syndrome I I I was
just I couldn't sleep I started going
downhill in fact my wife was like you
don't look too good you look kind of
gray and almost greenish and I was very
I was going downhill so um of course it
was a good and bad thing the good thing
was it it kind of woke me up to eating
healthily and figuring out things
because I stumbled on what to do to
correct things but if I never had that
experience I never would have got into
Health at all I stumbled on a book
called mastering the zone and I didn't
even read the whole book I just read the
introduction and it said something about
insulin and avoid carbs and eat high
quality protein so the next morning I
had a buffalo burger instead of my
cereal which I thought was really bad
for you at the time because it causes
you know cancer which is totally a lie
so I ate that and it was almost like
someone just literally took a helmet off
my head and I could actually think
clearly I was like oh my goodness this
is amazing the way I was trying to solve
my problems back then instead of
changing my diet I would just be taking
this supplement doing colon cleansings
and detoxes and we'd be driving down the
street my I would tell my wife hey
there's the health house let's go in
there and then come back with a a whole
bunch of vitamins and it wasn't working
because the foundation wasn't there so
tell me about the ketogenic diet there's
some people that you know I even medical
professionals who say it can become
dangerous MH explain to me how this
works yeah in real simple terms um
you're basically just eliminating the
massive amount of carbs that people eat
and um so because when you reduce
carbohydrates um it then forces your
body to go after your own fat as fuel
for weight loss is great and for other
things it's good too the average person
that's not overweight has literally
100,000 calories of fat on their body so
they can they have a lot more um stored
energy for running on fat than they do
from the dietary source of calories if
you don't tap into your own fat then
you're going to be dependent on the next
meal you're not going to be able to go
long before you're hungry so when you
start shifting off to the ketogenic diet
which is basically it's the breakdown of
fat into ketones as an alternative
fuel then you can go a lot longer
because you're running off these
calories that are just stored and that
allows you to get rid of your cravings
and your hunger and produce a whole
bunch of health effects especially for
your brain and your heart that you never
could do if you're not in ketosis there
is a certain condition if they forget
their medication and they don't take
insulin and their blood sugars go too
high then the body can develop a
different type of ketosis which is like
a dangerous type of ketosis people mix
them together and say all of ketosis is
bad which is not true our bodies were
designed to not have to eat every hour
and a half um so our bodies were
designed to be in ketosis even when
we're born we're going to ketosis so
there's going to be some vested interest
against that and they're going to put
out all sorts of things about ketosis
mainly they'll say something like well
yes ketosis does work and it does help
you lose weight but we don't know what's
going to happen long term well just a
little bit of doubt in people's mind and
then they just they're discouraged
bottom line is anyone can jump on the
keto diet and do it and there's no
health risk really like this is this is
what you're saying here right the risk
is not doing it especially uh since most
people have what's called insulin
resistance that's a condition where
you've eaten carbs for so long uh
chronically that your your uh your body
is now um having a like it's almost it's
a pre-diabetic situation where you can't
use insulin as well it's not working and
so then you get all sorts of problems
like a fatty liver and you're overweight
in your midsection it starts swelling
and the Heart suffer
the brain suffers also a dirty keto
people go on they kind of like go to
McDonald's and they'll just eat the the
meat without the bun and that's fine as
a step up but the way that I I teach
people to do it is to do it the healthy
version and and it's okay if someone
goes off the ketogenic diet it's
actually sometimes good to remind
themselves of what they feel like like
for me it took me a long time to change
my diet because I love junk food
especially Doritos and chips and uh so I
had to go back and forth and back and
forth to the point where I'm like you
know what I don't want to feel bad
anymore I'm just going to keep it
consistent rarely do I ever go off just
because I I like the way I feel without
it uh why is a McDonald's burger with no
bun dirty keto what does that even mean
that means like you're using a the lower
quality of calories uh on the ketogenic
diet for example keto diet is not
necessarily high fat like people think
they can eat more fat and go into
ketosis no no the way you get into
ketosis is by lowering your carbohydrate
okay so now of course you have to
replace those carbohydrates with
something so that's fat now when people
do like seed oils and like you can go
and Fry something in like corn oil and
and it's still keto because it's low
carb but is it the healthy version maybe
not so there's there's different levels
of um um quality of ingredients like you
look at um Ain bars right it's just
filled with uh soy protein isolates like
that's like pretty low quality protein
yeah it's keto but is it healthy I would
I wouldn't think so so and you to your
point here about uh getting the healthy
carbohydr you actually live on a farm
right and so you're you're growing these
uh uh I guess carbohydrates and non-c
carbohydrates just just tell me about
that I I have the uh fortunate option to
live on the farm I lived in Bethesda for
um and actually uh Alexandria for for
many many years and uh after a while
after 30 years I was like you know what
uh we need to kind of move into a
location where there's more space we
actually live off the land I have
Gardens I have um animals we eat the uh
the meat so that's I'm lucky in that way
I can actually have a freezer full of
meat from my farm and uh control that
but you you don't necessarily have to
live on a farm to be healthy you could
get this high quality protein anywhere
but um that's basically what where I
live and I have a little Studio that I'm
in right now I do my videos and uh
basically one video every single day and
we have like 5700 videos um that I've
done so yeah that's pretty much what I'm
up to lately how is it that we got to
this place where I guess we forgot what
good food was you know I interviewed I
released a video today I interviewed my
father who was 87 years old and I I I
started interviewing him I'm like what
did they eat back then and how can we
compare that to now did they have food
allergies no did they have autism no was
there anyone that was overweight no was
there any diabetes no like you didn't
even have these problems and
so one of the conclusions that I came up
with is there's been a new category of
food that was invented or created or
manufactured by the food industry called
the snack food in uh snack foods so we
have the crackers the chips the little
bars the snack bars I mean back then
your parents would tell you not to ruin
your appetite and if they did have a
snack it was like an apple or something
out the garden now we snack not on that
we snack on alter processed food
calories so we're dealing with highly
refined things that are just going to
raise our insulin between the meals so
now we have three meals and then we add
the snacks now we get this these Spikes
all day long and we're creating a
chronic insulin situation which is
literally destroying our health at a
very early age I remember asking my
father I says what kind of cereal did
you have oatmeal with milk that was it
there wasn't you know these uh cereals
that they have now H how is it that this
actually happened right because it's not
just the reality of uh the the junk food
but it's the actual guidance to some
extent too right you remember when
tobacco was considered healthy and
people smoked and so that went over a
period of time and then there was a
shift where smoking was bad cigarette
manufacturing companies uh shifted gears
and they bought up some of the junk food
industry and then they started producing
more food that was uh very profitable if
you take for example one ingredient corn
the type of corn they use in junk food
is not sweet corn they use what's called
Dent corn or field corn it's it's
inedible you can't even eat it but
that's the corn that's in the chips it's
in uh most of the products because of
the subsidies they they basically can
buy a cubic ton of this corn for
$198 okay now think about how many boxes
of corn flakes you can make for under
200 bucks so you have a super cheap um
food that gives you a lot of pleasure at
the expense of no nutrition Nu very
little protein so it's going to keep you
eating it my problem was the Doritos
like I could just start and know I would
down the whole bag I mean a large bag in
one sitting without even thinking twice
so uh we created this uh industry and
it's created add addictions 40 50 years
later here we are you know with the
problem and unfortunately you as a
taxpayer pays for most the raw material
in this junk food unknowingly through
the subsidies and that's something that
has to be cleaned up by this new
Administration let's talk about this new
Administration but before we go there
just to finish off uh the first question
you know somehow a high carbohydrate
diet became kind of what we were
supposed to do and so is that is that
just pure lobbying or how did that
happen it's pure profit because you you
have to make profit on things that have
no shelf life I mean let's just take
beef for example the margins on beef is
like 3% so why would you want to get
into the beef business right if you look
at junk food if you take a look at just
profit they make about $
260 billion dollar a year just on the
starches and an average person consumes
about 250 to 300 pounds of starch every
single year whereas the sugars it's like
they might make it's like 10 billion it
doesn't even compare yet people consume
about 150 pounds of sugar a year but
starches are like that that's something
that people don't talk about so I think
if if we are going to make some changes
we have to first of all make people
aware of these hidden ingredients and
start to get them out of your your diet
the other thing I noticed is that if
there's these hidden far basically Farm
subsidies right in the system if you're
going to start taking apart the system
you're actually going to impact
America's Farmers you know those Farmers
I think played a big role in uh this
Administration elected I think what we
should do is reward the small farmer
because they're being put out of
business and support them and maybe get
subsidize the farmers that are doing it
right uh with healthier foods rather
than the large industrial Farms that are
just literally you know producing the
lowest
quality food you could imagine what
about large Farms that produce higher
quality food because there must be a
range just there is there's a total
range and um
Cornucopia is a great uh activist group
that I support and they have a a food
scoring system that they'll look at
these farms and like they talk about
who's doing right who's who's not doing
it right because they find these
loopholes and they try to cheat the
system and it's called organic but is it
really organic so they're really trying
to keep the Integrity in at least in the
organic sphere there's going to be a lot
more transparency because the largest
privately owned company in in United
States I won't even tell I won't even
say the name um that's the company that
makes most of the starches in the uh the
seed oils and some of the sugars too and
uh they're a privately owned company and
so they don't have to disclose certain
things what is the promise of this new
Administration from in your
view RFK is um he's a non-politician
he's going to be a really good person to
get in there to cut the umbilical cords
between the Coy relationships and the of
the conflict of interests between
industry and the government right now
this whole the food guidelines are
associated between who has the strongest
lobbyist and so there's too much
influence from industry in our food
system in our medical system in the
research of drugs he's going to clean
that up and of course they're going to
attack him for this but it's going to be
a really vital change to remove this
conflict of interest and be have more
transparency so we can actually focus
more on the root causes of health issues
you know support the the smaller farmer
and uh make it possible for Our
Generation to be healthy because right
now it's getting worse food guidelines
is so important because it trickles down
into the school system the hospitals the
assisted living home there's an
individual I know who has um he's in
Arizona he owns four assisted living
homes okay and with what's really
interesting about him is he changes the
diet uh he doesn't allow junk food and
these people are coming in from places
like hospice and his rate of reducing
medications through the help of their
online doctor or their doctor that's on
site it's like 47% so you go in there
with certain medications and then you're
you're coming out with almost half of
those medications so he told me this and
this is really fascinating that the the
software that he uses to coordinate
between the medical doctor and the
medications is owned by a CEO um that I
told him to contact the CEO and I want
to know on average what's the average
number of medications that these
patients are on so he did that for me
and you're not going to believe what he
said he took a hundred people random
people out of his database and he works
with people all over the United States
in these assisted living homes and he
found a range between 91 medications to
42 medications with an average of 48
medications he sent me a document
with one patient on 48 medications okay
I look through this I almost vomited
because I'm like you got to be kidding
me an average person going to an
assisted leing home is on 48 medications
I mean this is like outrageous this is
insane so why wouldn't we want someone
like Bobby kenned to go in there and
straighten this up to improve this to
get people to start eating real food all
over the place I I remember thinking
that too uh in the past that it's so
bizarre that the food you get in
hospitals you know isn't really a very
high quality you would think it like
nutritionally you would you might want
that right I lived in Thailand for a
couple of years where medical tourism is
a is a popular thing except that it's
sort of like a five-star hotel
experience right that's that's part of
what you pay for as doing whatever the
medical procedure you want and they just
they feed you really well and I thought
that's is very different from the
hospital food I I've seen right I know
like I wented for surgery and uh I was
like do you have any protein no we have
Jello crackers I'm like I need protein
can you I mean it's it's sickening like
especially with before surgery and after
the surgery like you need you need
actual food it it does
seem crazy on the face of it that
there's the average number across 100
random people in uh you know Elder care
facilities um the an average person
would be on 48 medications that seems
astonishingly High however um well you
know presumably they need some of those
medications so we we you know so there's
a you're you're arguing there's an
overprescription
scenario Happening Here If I mean just
like the question is did you bring up
food are you using food in your equation
when you're diagnosing do you how do you
know
what is causing what are you looking at
the side effects from the medications
maybe you're just treating the side
effects of the medication with another
medication and we go round and round
when you treat symptoms and not real
causes you don't really improve the
health so like even your blood sugars
right you take a medication to lower
your blood sugars where do you think
that's going where do you think that
sugar is going is it evaporating it's
you're just changing one problem you're
shifting it to another part of the body
especially there's something called
autogenic disease I don't know if you
ever heard of that um that's course
medication caused disease that's like
number three as far as on the top
leading causes of death is otogenic is
number third so or number three so the
question is um I think especially with
the antibiotics and steroids and things
like that it should be re-evaluated this
the system is is unworkable there are
medical doctors I guess the bottom line
is that do look at causes and not just
symptoms but basically the but the
default is to look at the symptoms is
that would is that a right way to
characterize there's more and more
doctors are um looking at the whole body
even endocrinologists that I know that
I'm friends with that are looking at the
diet because there's just kind of a
disconnect they they refer anything
related to food to the The
dietitian but then they don't have
control of that so I think um the the
new trend is going to be looking at the
whole body and so uh they're not just
stuck in this uh this managing the
symptom model just like if you take an
engineer and an engineer looks at this
logically like they're going to go wait
what's wrong with this this is no let's
what's what's the mechanism what's
underneath it like do we ever take
people off the medication what's the
plan what's the long-term plan there's a
lot of people that are interested in
weight loss right now and there's these
you know very popular new drugs which a
lot of people are going on is that
they're actually working for people um
if someone is interested in weight loss
where where should people look first
well I think if we look at just weight
loss by itself there's just one thing
you need to know about how the body
stores fat and um that has to do with
the hormone insulin so if you want to
lose weight you got to keep that insulin
low so there's two ways to do it one is
to lower your carbohydrates and that
would be the sugars and starches but the
other way too is you can also do a
different thing which is do intermittent
fasting start skipping your breakfast
and having like two meals and and not
the snacks so if you go longer without
the snacks what you're going to find is
you'll go into ketosis your appetite
will go
down and we're not even talking about
lowering calories we're just talking
about not eating so frequently um you
can lose a lot of weight like that
because every time you eat you raise
insulin regardless of what you eat so
it's very important to know that and and
the other thing I think that people
don't know about is that um all it takes
is a little bit of carbohydrate to bump
bump you out of ketosis for a longer
period of time like sometimes up to 48
hours so that half a glass of wine or
that toast you kind of have to now wait
for a day and a half to two days before
you get back in the ketosis so all of
people are saying well I'm I'm I'm
trying it but it's not working and then
you ask them what they're doing they're
like well yeah I do have a little bit of
something in between the meals I'm like
okay so just do intermittent fasting
Watch What Happens and it finally works
for them if you try to do a diet with
higher and carbs oh it's torture because
you're trying to lose weight with hunger
and Cravings I mean that's hard you're
going to at night you're like looking at
the cupboard and like oh my gosh I I
need some carbs right so it will make it
easier yes it does take discipline but I
think the best thing to do is don't have
it in the house where it contempt you um
I want to touch on a few things which
you uh I guess recommend I don't know
how broadly but uh one of the things
that we've discussed
before privately is vitamin D I
discovered it really as an such an
important thing during the covid-19
pandemic where you know people with
higher levels of vitamin D just had a
lot better outcomes on average vitamin D
is the is the most important vitamin
because it's involved in 10% of all of
our genes 10 that's like over 2500 genes
think about how how vast that is right
everything from the immune system to the
brain to to inflammation to your bone so
it's not just about bones absorbing
calcium for bones it's about uh a lot of
different things the question is can you
get enough vitamin D from the diet no
you can't it's impossible you can get it
from the Sun but think about what
happened in the 80s we or someone had
this idea that we should stay out of the
sun because Sun causes skin cancer we
became Sun phobic and even nowadays it's
hard to find even kids outside what we
really need as a maintenance dosage on a
daily basis to maintain all of the
systems in the body with just as a
maintenance uh dose is 10,000 iuse of
vitamin D3 very few people know that and
very few people are doing that they're
using the outdated
information that was only researched
about with your bones preventing rickets
which is like soft bones and children
and they're not looking at all this
amazing research and I think because the
amount of competition with medications
is very high because if you take a look
at Vitamin D what it can do for
inflammation what it can do for
autoimmune what it can do for
respiratory infections what it can do
for insulin issues it's literally
amazing when you dive in the research I
think I have over 280 videos in vitamin
D so I am like very interested in this
topic because it's it's the lowest
hanging fruit if you want to get someone
healthy really it's like if you just
give them vitamin D
for so many issues they can actually
improve it's inexpensive you could use
the sun if it's summer but if not it's
it's not that expensive as a um a
modality you know a treatment what about
turmeric okay so
termeric has this active ingredient
called curcumin out of all of the herbal
remedies that one is the most research
it has the most broad spectrum effects
of anything that is probably on the
scale of importance is that's like a
really top herb that can can literally
do so many things and I think because
it's it can grow in uh very um
dehydrated environments and so that
plant has adapted for hundreds of
thousands of years to create these
amazing defense mechanisms and these
properties of survival that we can then
consume in it helps our bodies in many
different ways especially as an
anti-inflammatory I would highly
recommend including that in your diet on
a regular basis you can do it through
curries or the you know teas curiously
in in Polish uh the word for turmeric is
kurkuma so I'm a native speaker I keep
that's what I keep thinking uh a as you
say it and I might add it's delicious
it's it's just a you know a wonderful
thing you know one thing that I I made a
mistake of you know I'm always the kind
of the guy that if if a little is good a
lot is better no not with not with t
yeah there's there's definitely a limit
and you don't want to get it on your
shirt so yes I I I I grew it and then I
I dried it out and I started to eat it
through the day like for several days in
a row I was just eating it
constantly got sick you don't need much
just have a little
bit um you know you help people with
like basically fatigue and so forth I
mean what what what is
your you you you must have like a broad
approach to dealing with
when you take a symptom like fatigue
that that's that can come from a lot of
different things so the first question I
always always ask is like what do you
eating uh but as far as nutrients go
there's a a really important nutrient
that people know about but they don't
really connected to fatigue but if you
go into the cells the energy Factory of
the cell the mitochondria which is a
very important part of the cell uh in
order to make energy the last little
part of that uh requires magnesium and
it's a little motor that spins it's an
enzyme that spins like 400 times a
second it's like the most amazing little
motor and it's in your body and it's
working to make what's called ATP and it
requires magnesium so um yes magnesium
people take for leg cramps and to sleep
and for stress but energy you should
take a magnesium for energy because if
you take you take vitamin D that's the
most important the second one is
magnesium magnesium is almost impossible
to test because most of the Magnesium is
inside the tissues it's not in the blood
I mean only 1% of it's in the blood so
you have to have a special test and no
one gets that it's something that's also
very commonly deficient and the one that
I would recommend is something like um
like a magnesium glycinate because
that's the one that won't cause diarrhea
and it it's gets absorb 80% you take it
right before bed and um great for muscle
muscle stuff sleeping apparently it's
good for sleeping but then it's also
good for energy
yeah right well you know what it takes
energy to sleep which is interesting
some people are too tired to actually
rest so they're laying down they
restless and they're just can't get into
relaxed State what about the superfoods
what what is the top superfood in your
mind I think this is going to surprise
you because when people think superfoods
they drink the green drinks right but
there's a much higher level of superfood
that has virtually every nutrient very
bio valuable and it's actually red meat
red meat people are going to say oh my
gosh I thought that was like it's just
like process me no I'm talking about
grass-fed red meat whether it's beef or
it's U lamb I mean it has so many
nutrients iron and b12 and and plus the
protein is the the highest quality it's
even better than eggs because it has
better omega-3 ratios and um so it's
really a good healing food people have
gone on to the plant proteins and it's
they're not going to feel as good so
it's high quality protein most of our
body is protein and um that would be
something that a person would notice
immediately uh a difference Eric a final
thought as we finish I think my final
thought on this would be instead of this
huge focus on treating disease and
focusing on getting rid of disease let's
let's start to focus on creating our
health it's a different question it's a
different model instead of waiting till
you get a disease and treating it let's
prevent that by by looking at common
simple things that you can do to um you
know lifestyle changes that involve at
the real essence of it eating real food
that's the most important thing you can
do well Eric Berg it's such a pleasure
to have had you on thank you so much I
really appreciate it
