hi guys I'm back in this video we're
going to talk about why diabetes is
becoming so prevalent so popular
nowadays I found some interesting
information I want to share with you the
American Diabetes Association 1970 were
recommending 45% of the total calories
carbohydrates okay
20% protein 35% fat then in 1986 it
increased to 60 percent of the total
calories carbohydrates okay so remember
45 to 60 and it's interesting because in
the 70s you didn't see the obesity that
you see right after you know the 80s and
the 90s so here we have this
recommendation of more carbohydrates
then in 1994 they still kept the 60% but
the they were more flexible with their
plan and they allowed more added sugar
and sucrose to be a part of these
calories right here okay big problem
because as you know the carbs are going
to spike insulin so then the medical
association really gets their
information about diabetes from the
experts here so it filters down through
the medical industry and it's really you
cannot fix diabetes with this many
carbohydrates it's impossible so what
they have to do is they have to manage
diabetes okay so that's all about
balancing their food with the medication
and making sure that the complications
of diabetes which is hypoglycemia
doesn't occur because that's dangerous
so you have to keep feeding them to keep
the sugar up so it's all about keeping
that sugar medication balanced okay then
we have to balance the lipids which is
coming from the high levels of insulin
with medication good thing we have
medication for that that we can have
medication for the high blood pressure
another complication of diabetes we can
balance that with meds and then as far
as your weight goes it's all about
energy balance of eating less and
exercising more so we just get people on
the treadmill burning off those calories
keep trying to get a meat less and see
we eat where it gets us and it's just
going to keep getting worse so we have
this group that is giving us bad
information unhealthy
information making us unhealthy and then
we have this organization right here
which is just really focusing on
managing diabetes so now I put a little
link down below which is a little mini
course on what is insulin resistance
okay
share it with your friends your family
the people that you care about let's get
the word out and really spread this
information
hey thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
