hi guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to talk about can eating dietary
fat reduce your own fat your belly fat
is that
possible it is possible and in fact I
don't know of any other way to do it
eating fat is a necessity I don't think
you'll be able to get rid of your belly
fat without eating some fat and I'm
going to explain why most people have
been taught that you have to eat less
and move more to lose weight to burn up
the calories right and fat has the most
calories so therefore you have to work
out really hard and avoid fat calories
so you can burn it off but let's take a
look at really what is the trigger of
the fat burning
hormones and this is straight out of uh
gance physiology the the main trigger to
stimulate fat burning is the lack of
insulin okay that means you the keeping
insulin down to a normal level that's
what triggers fat burning not
necessarily lowering calories I know
most of you have tried that and it
hasn't worked it's been proven not to
work just going to make you craving more
right so it's really lack of insulin so
what does that mean that means that you
have to eliminate anything that triggers
insulin
so there's an insulin
scale okay and the Foods on this insulin
scale and I'll put a a link to the video
Down Below on more data on insulin scale
but if you could actually understand
what triggers insulin and you can avoid
that you can be very successful so some
of the things that you already know
would be avoiding sugar right um but
there's some other things too that you
may not know and that's eating too many
frequent meals and snacking in between
meals that will also increase insulin
but the only thing that will not trigger
insulin to any great degree would be fat
fat is almost neutral when it comes down
to insulin
secretion
so okay so you got that right I'll put
that to the side I'll come back to that
protein we already know carbs increases
insulin but protein also will increase
insulin especially if it's lowfat or
lean okay I have more data on the video
down below and this is probably new data
to you so if you do a lot of uh whey
protein or or soy protein powders or
anything that is a concent rated amino
acid protein in large amounts you're
going to spike
insulin so if we so if we can't eat the
carbs and we can't eat too much protein
what's left is fat so if you consume fat
with the protein you buffer the protein
Spike with insulin Spike so for example
egg yolks it's low on the list of
insulin egg whites are high if you have
the whole egg you can actually lower the
insulin response response if you get
chicken don't get this chicken breast
with the lean thing get the skin on it
that lowers the insulin
scale some of you are going to disagree
with this but I'm just saying try it out
for yourself to see that it does work
but if you go lean protein you're
stiming the insulin and you're going low
fat you have nothing to buffer the
insulin so you absolutely need the fat
especially at the meals to let you to to
allow you to go longer without eating so
you're not so hungry because soon as you
snack you spike insulin this gives a
whole new shift of focus on what to put
your attention on which is basically
just avoiding insulin and if you do this
you will lose weight I have hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of people that um
are doing this and getting really good
success rate so I want you to try it out
it's a New Concept and see if it works
for you thanks for watching hey guys
thank you so much for watching please
click the Subscribe button and I will
see you in the next video
