hey guys I want to talk about
cholesterol deficiency now I know you've
been taught that you need to lower your
cholesterol so far down because it's so
dangerous it's going to clog your
arteries but here's the facts there are
way more problems with low cholesterol
than there is with high cholesterol
let's just let's just take let's say you
had high cholesterol High total
cholesterol do you realize that the risk
for heart attack would only be
.1% increased that's 1/1 of 1% so if I
were to tell you because of your high
cholesterol uh you have 1/10th of 1%
chance of getting a heart attack would
you take the medication probably not
right the amount of problems that occur
with low cholesterol depression cancer
Strokes aortic
dissection where that's where the aorta
just splits and that would cause a
stroke obviously uh internal bleeding uh
prone to suicide
wow probably from the depression right
uh why because cholesterol is necessary
to make
hormones uh short-term memory loss in
the elderly susceptible to infection
including Mera that's probably why so
many people at the hospital are getting
Mera because they put them on statins uh
increased risk for
AIDS increase risk uh uh chance of
getting allergy or asthma um you can
actually improve allergies and Asthma by
giving the person vitamin D but to to
get to make vitamin D you need
cholesterol um so here's the thing in
1994 low cholesterol would be considered
like 160 or less now days people are
trying to get it down to like 110 and
they think that's healthy I put some
links down below so you can learn about
the facts about cholesterol but what you
need to know is there's way more
problems with low cholesterol than there
is is with high cholesterol so let's
talk about the foods that are highest in
cholesterol okay if you wanted to raise
your cholesterol if it was too low now I
don't consume brain but brain would be
the highest amount of cholesterol that
you can possibly consume which is
interesting because your our brains are
20% cholesterol we need the cholesterol
to feed our brains so you can also get
organ Meats liver kidney loaded with
cholesterol it's interesting why is that
because our bodies need cholesterol for
those organs right caviar is very high
in cholesterol cver oil egg yolks that's
where I get my cholesterol uh butter
cold water fish lard so these are all
foods that a lot of people ate back in
the early 20s and 30s but of course in
the 40s and then the 50s and 60s people
just kind of got them out of their diet
but um the truth is that cholesterol
deficiencies create more problems than
high cholesterol thanks for
watching he I just want to take a moment
to thank you for your amazing amazing
successes that you guys are writing
about and I would love to have a
complete success story from you with a
before picture and an after picture as
well if you have that and I put a link
down below so you can fill it out if you
don't have a weight loss before and
after just put an image of yourself and
your success I would love to read it and
I would love to share it with others
because it does give them hope that they
could be helped too thank you so much
