hey guys listen to this video I'm gonna
talk about carb cycling okay my I'm
gonna give you my opinion on it here's
what most people do they start off with
burning sugar they're running on their
glycogen okay and then they decide to go
on a ketogenic diet so then they start
converting over keto adaptation start
burning their fat and start writing your
body's on ketones okay now you have a
lot more stored fat than you dude stored
sugar you have like an average thin
person that weighs 154 pounds would have
at least seventy seven thousand calories
of extra fat reserve but we only have
1,700 calories of stored sugar so just
based on that it makes more sense that
our bodies are meant to run on fat fuel
not carbs now one of the reasons why
people want to do carb cycling is for
their performance they feel better and
that usually is because their blood
Sugar's kind of go down and they they
don't have enough fuel to support the
muscles but if you actually fully adapt
yourself to keto okay with time and done
correctly you will not have this lower
blood sugar you'll be able to switch
over to fat burning very very
comfortably in your your performance
will be very very high endurance
athletes that get into ketosis for
months and months and even up to a year
burn three times as much fat as anyone
else their systems are very efficient at
burning ketones and they don't have this
drop in performance at all now if we
look at the majority of population I
would say at least 60% they have
something called insulin resistance they
cannot get away with carb cycling
they're already Carbajal --ax now that
would be equivalent to taking an
alcoholic and putting them on alcohol
cycling where they can drink a few times
a week that is going to be disastrous
but of course they're gonna feel better
because they won't have the withdrawals
but they will get worse the same thing
with carbs as soon as you start feeding
the person carbs allowing them to cycle
in their carbs they never fully adapt to
running your body on ketones be
it takes time to go from burning sugar
to burning fat it's very fast to go back
to burning sugar but if this takes a
long time so it's not a good thing for
the average person for the majority of
the population who is insulin resistant
now if you can get your body fully
adapted to running and on ketones you
will not have problems with your
performance and if your body needs
glucose it will make it the liver has
the capacity to make glucose on a
protein and out of fat all right thanks
for watching hey guys a lot of you
already have my book some of you don't
but this new edition called the new body
type guide is an upgrade from my last
Edition called the seven principles of
fat burning it has a hundred and fifty
six images 378 pages full glossary I
talk about keyed out in a minute fasting
the body types in detail I have a new
stressed chapter I'm going to show you
exactly what to eat any comprehensive
FAQ I put a link down below check it out
