hey guys I want to talk about overcoming
this keto flu here are the symptoms you
get a headache body aches it feels like
you're coming down with an infection
sometime which is you're really not uh
Cravings brain fog and fatigue and
you're wondering what the heck is going
on well if you just think about what
you're doing for the first time in your
life if you're 50 years old or 40 years
old or 6 years old you are converting
your entire cellular Machinery over to
fat burning you've been running your
body sugar your whole life now we're
going to switch over and there's going
to be growing pains um and we're going
to switch over the fat printing which is
much cleaner Fuel and it does take some
time you can't do this in two sometimes
two weeks sometimes it takes six weeks
sometimes even longer depending on how
long you've been living on sugar and how
bad your liver is but really when your
cells are converting over in changing
the Machinery they need certain
nutrients
vitamins and minerals and electrolytes
specifically B vitamins and
electrolytes these are the co-actors the
co-h helpers that help in the enzyme
conversion so you need electrolytes a
really good if you can't find a good
electrolyte mix I you can click down
below I own with a lot of potassium and
no sugar or multiex the B vitamins real
simple you get nutritional yeast okay
try to get the
unfortified and then what you do is you
take a teaspoon in the morning morning
and at night all these symptoms will go
away why because now you're providing
the body with all this extra uh support
to be able to make this conversion I
mean think about it when you start
cutting out sugar from the diet because
see water and fluid is attracted to
Sugar you're going to be dumping a lot
of extra fluid and you're going to
remove a lot of electrolytes from the
body at the same time so you're going to
be ending up being
depleted so to some degree and that's
when the symptoms kick in so if if
you're eating really healthy you
probably won't actually have this
situation that's why you need the big
salads and things so simply just add
these two things in the mix and watch
this thing go away it'll probably go
away within a day or two all right
thanks for
watching hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
