hey guys I had a question does
intermittent fasting cause muscle loss
so I just created a video on that it's
going to be a short video the answer is
no okay let me tell you why well first
of all intermittent fasting triggers a
hormone called growth hormone growth
hormone is the main hormone that spares
muscle protein breakdown in your body it
protects it cortisol the stress hormone
and insulin both cause destruction of
your muscles okay so stress eating sugar
having instant resistance being a
diabetic destroys your muscles one study
which I'll put a link down below states
that forty hours of fasting did not
trigger any breakdown of muscle at all
skeletal muscle that's and they
basically there's other studies that
show that you can even go longer without
breaking down muscle protein so if you
were to go having even one meal a day
and thinking that's going to be
destructive to your workouts not true
your body's not stupid it's if you don't
eat you actually do stimulate certain
hormones that protect the body against
loss of muscle and this has been going
on a long time in the evolutionary
process of the body so your body is
adapted to not eating
okay so ketones going on a ketogenic
diet or cutting down your carbs will
also stimulate the this the protection
of muscle as well so that's growth
hormone spares protein eating in general
suppresses growth hormone so every time
you eat you actually block growth
formula right the main hormone that
spares protein so intermittent fasting
can boost growth hormone by between 300
and 2,000 percent that's significant so
there's other things that will also do
it like low blood sugar keeping your
sugars out of the diet deep sleep deep
quality sleep will do it live and b3
niacin we'll do it in a minute fasting
we talked about that in hard core
exercise those are the things if you
want to protect your muscles those are
the things that you do thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press
little button down below okay thanks
