hey it's me in this video I want to
share with you the top anti-inflammatory
cures okay so it's the key is isolating
what's causing the inflammation so let's
just cover all the possibilities number
one food allergies why because food
allergies can create
inflammation so the key is getting a log
and finding out what you eat and then
how you feel right after for example
some people eat citrus and an hour later
they're in severe pain okay or they
might eat I don't know night shades and
they get pain so you want to keep a log
and just write down how you feel after
everything you eat and then you just
isolate like what did you when did you
start feeling this this way what did you
have just before that with me the
sensitivity that I have that will put me
in serious pain is broccoli go figure I
love broccoli but I can't eat it it
tears me up it used to be Lobster it
would just put me in bed you know so so
those are all things that can trigger
inflammation the next thing I want to
talk about is
hormones most of the hormone that
controls inflammation is the coming from
the adrenal gland the adrenal
gland makes this hormone called cortisol
which is anti-inflammatory so we need
cortisol but not too much and not too
little and if you run out of cortisol
you can end up with all sorts of
inflammatory disorders that's why the
doctors give you prednizone what is
prazone
and cortisol it's cortisol it's a
hormone or they might give you cortisol
cream or uh cortisol shots those are all
anti-inflammatory okay so that hormone
is an adrenal hormone I have something
that I use as a natural cortisone which
is called cortisol support this
basically is great for inflammation it's
great for the person that has arthritis
btis tentis chronic inflam
in pain this is what this is for
cortisol so it just it's it doesn't have
any drugs in it it's natural but it
supports the gland that makes cortisol
so it's a really good thing for
inflammation okay so what triggers what
messes that up in the first place stress
so stress events will burn out the
adrenal so that's just one source now
the next thing is um insulin okay uh
insulin if you have insulin resistance
you're going to have a lot of
inflammation in the body now what is
insulin resistance it's a pre-diabetic
situation where the cells um are not
allowing the insulin to penetrate so you
don't get the nutrition in the cells but
one of the side effects from um either
too much insulin or insulin resistance
which is kind of too much insulin in
certain parts of the body is a lot of
inflammation so how do you fix that well
you stop eating sugar you stop eating
refined carbs okay breads pasta cereal
crackers and some people say well that's
that's really healthy for you well no
it's not very healthy for you it creates
inflammation so just cut that out and
you just might feel a lot better so
there's a lot of videos I have about
insulin resistance that you can watch
and you can reduce inflammation greatly
in your body so that's important number
three the gallbladder now this typically
occurs when you have right sided
problems so I have people that have like
right sided like a finger pain or a toe
pain or a knee pain and right side
usually that gallbladder in the liver
when that thing doesn't work not only
will it put pressure on the rest of the
organs and kind of affect the nerves on
the right side but all of the
anti-inflammatory remedies that are
listed you know or at the heha store are
usually essential fatty acids well guess
what it takes to absorb those essential
fatty acids a good gallbladder so again
I have other videos and gallbladder you
can you can uh watch on YouTube but
that's one source that you want to look
at and even like fibromyalgia people
that have um fibromyalgia it's usually a
gallbladder and it's interesting because
they don't know it as the patient comes
in my clinic they don't know it's the
gallbladder so what I'll do is I'll rate
the fibromyalgia and then I'll just do a
little acurate pressure on the
gallbladder and then I'll rate it and
it's completely gone and they're just
blown away they don't realize that
fibromyalgia is referred from that darn
gallbladder okay and I might give them
gallbladder formula for that as well but
maybe I might just do some acupressure
so number four old injuries so if you've
have old injuries like I do um like in
the back or the joint or the wrist or
the elbow or the shoulder you had maybe
a old uh injury or a surgery that's now
stiff here's what you do you can take
the gallbladder formula but there's
something else you can do that will also
help you want to actually massage the
opposite joint okay just try it don't
even believe me just try it if you
sprained your right ankle and it's
inflamed work on the opposite ankle
same thing with the knee same thing with
the hip same thing with the wrist work
on this one just massage it wherever it
hurts on one side you work on the
opposite side and especially to your
shoulder okay but the key is you have to
massage the exact Mirror Image side just
try it it'll work okay that's a little
secret just between you and me and uh
it'll it works like magic okay the last
thing has to do with soft tissue calcium
in the body many people are even taking
calcium and they're feeling worse uh
which is bad but they have soft tissue
calcium that builds up in the joints
it's arthritis btis tontis they tend to
get stones and Spurs and kidney stones
and heel spurs and tartter in the teeth
and gall stones and kidney stones so
what you need to do is you need to take
two remedies for that vitamin K2 okay
which is a maybe a new thing for you
probably never heard of it but it's
vitamin K2 and then they take vitamin D3
and you want to take those together I
like to take these in the same ratio
like if this is 10,000 I use I do 100
micro micrograms per every 10,000 I use
so uh like I sell both of these and I
just I might give two of each two uh 2
K2 two uh D3 and I would take that in
the morning with some breakfast and then
take that over a period of time that's
slowly gets rid of the soft tissue
calcium that could be causing the
arthritis that you that are that's
underneath the inflammation okay so it's
a soft tissue calcium so I just want to
kind of expand your idea on uh
inflammation in general so you can kind
of pinpoint what what you have a problem
with and apply some of this information
and I will see you in the next video
