let's talk about the early warning signs
of appendicitis now first of all do we
really need our appendix I mean isn't it
just an extra organ well actually you do
need your appendix it serves a very very
important purpose
it's your insurance policy it's your
backup for when you get food poisoning
and get diarrhea or you have some type
of gut infection where you have diarrhea
and you lose your good bacteria so
there's a concentrated amount of good
bacteria and immune factors that's
sitting in this appendix that will be
released if you have diarrhea because
your body wants to prevent the bad
bacteria from stepping in and taking
over so it's there to help you replenish
the good bacteria so here we have the
small intestine over here and it
connects with a little valve called
ileocecal valve and then you have the
large intestine okay and the appendix is
right down here and sometimes that can
be blocked with various things even from
a parasite or a stone or because your
diet is poor you get inflammation and
this closes down and then that gets
infected and the early symptoms usually
are going to be a sudden pain between
the location of where your appendix is
and your bellybutton so about two inches
to the right of your bellybutton okay
you're gonna notice the sudden pain
right there or nausea or you're gonna
have bowel changes diarrhea or
constipation or pain around your
bellybutton
or you might have a low-grade fever
because there's an infection going on
but these are the early signs of
appendicitis
now remember when I was a kid I probably
was seven years old and I was
complaining of pain in my abdomen my
mother took me to the hospital and I
remember laying on this table and the
doctors pressing around to see if
there's any pain and I remember him
pressing right over this point and it
hurt really bad and I didn't say
anything so that could have been a
potential big problem but it really
wasn't it was probably some something I
ate because I lived on sugar back then
but I'd said there wasn't pain and then
I went home and nothing ever occurred
from that but there's some really
important things that you can do to
prevent appendicitis and number one is
making sure you have enough probiotics
there's many different types of
probiotics out there you get one that
survives the stomach but probiotics can
act to protect the colon against
infections so probiotics are really
really really important in keeping your
immune system really really strong and
also making healthy lactic acid to
prevent the unfriendly bacteria and
things that can set in in the lower
colon number two make sure you have
enough fiber to feed these microbes okay
and I'm talking about vegetables that
would be a good thing
number three cut the sugar down because
pathogens love sugar and we want to
avoid sugar thus the ketogenic diet
right
okay garlic is really good to kill off
microbes and prevent infections in the
large intestine time is an herb rosemary
is a good natural antibiotic but it only
really kills the bad guys not the good
guys onion is good oregano is really
really good
and you can see all these herbs are
normally in a pizza so go ahead and eat
more pizza and being very very sarcastic
you can put these on different foods
different dishes meats things like that
and radish radish is really really good
as well
apple cider vinegar is very healthy for
the colon and fasting fasting gives your
intestines a chance to chill out and
also allows the food to cycle through so
you're not crammed and food down there
24/7 to set you up for appendicitis and
lastly if you haven't seen my video on
digestion I put it up right here it's
actually a very important video
