today let's talk about the unique
benefits of magnesium glycinate now as
you may know already magnesium is
involved in over 300 different enzymes
including making uh energy as ATP
including uh all sorts of things with
your muscles and the nervous system as
well as your DNA but it's important to
understand that magnesium comes in a lot
of different forms so if we look at what
magnesium glycinate really is it's
really a combination of magnesium and
the amino acid glycine together combined
and when you combine those you get a
much better absorption in the intestine
versus using a type of magnesium that's
not well absorbed like magnesium oxide
or sulfate or carbonate or even
magnesium hydroxide those are all poorly
absorbed but other forms like magnesium
glycinate are very easily absorbed and
magnesium glycinate is very gentle on
your stomach it won't cause the diarrhea
that some other forms can create like
magnesium citrate so it has a much
lesser laxative effect it's good for
overall
relaxation uh muscle relaxation
especially at night preventing cramps so
it's really good for Sleep improving
insomnia and it also is good for
improving energy now it's not going to
keep you up at night but it's going to
allow you to get into a much deeper
sleep to have energy during the day
magnesium glycinate also has an effect
as a vasod dilator so it's really good
for blood pressure it's also good to
help uh regulate calcium and prevent
calcium from accumulating because
magnesium and calcium work together and
since it's involved with calcium it can
also reduce the risk of kidney stones
and it's also been known to help
increase insulin sensitivity to help
blood sugars and people that have
problems with insulin resistance which
could even be a pre-diabetic or even a
diabetic magnesium glycinate also has
has been known to help people with
migraine headaches and states of lower
mood like depression and anxiety so it's
a really good form of magnesium that
overall helps reduce stress now if you
get this as a supplement um I would try
to uh get one that also has vitamin D3
and B6 because both of those nutrients
will help the absorption even more and
sometimes people have a question that
what's the difference between this
magnesium glycinate versus magnesium bis
glycinate well there is no difference
they're this exact same supplement so by
adding that little bis behind the name
does not change the chemistry at all now
since we mentioned magnesium citrate I
will say that's a really good one for
leg cramps at night it's a good one for
stress it's a good one for blood
pressure but magnesium citrate can
create a laxative effect so it might be
better for people that have a tendency
to be more constipated but if you
compare the two magnesium glycinate is
just a little bit better for various
reasons it won't create a laxative
effect and uh magnesium glycinate is not
dependent on the pH in other words you
can take it on an empty stomach or with
food you don't even need a strong
stomach acid to absorb it which is
unique because most minerals need that
strong stomach acid so as people get
older and they lose their stomach acid
they're not going to absorb minerals but
if you take magnesium in the glycinate
form will be absorbed regardless of the
pH of your stomach now the best time to
take this form of magnesium would be
right before bed because it's going to
help you sleep it's going to relax you
it's going to prevent those leg cramps
however if you take it other parts of
the day it's not going to necessarily
make you tired it's going to just make
you feel more relaxed should you take it
an empty stomach it doesn't really
matter you can take it with meals or
without now the normal dose I would
recommend would be anywhere between a
100 mg to 400 mg
per day and that would depend on what
kind of problems are you trying to solve
do you have severe muscle cramps let's
say you have severe high blood pressure
or you have sleeping problems well just
take a little bit more but if you don't
take a little bit less like I said
before magnesium glycinate is a
combination of magnesium and glycine so
now let's talk about the benefits of
glycine it creates a calming effect it
will help you sleep it helps the
neurotransmitters in your brain thereby
increasing cognitive function
it's even good for collagen support and
blood sugar control and sometimes it's
used as an anti-inflammatory because it
can help get rid of inflammation it can
even help improve B production okay
which can help your absorption
especially of fats it's also related to
increasing energy just like magnesium so
you just might find that your energy
starts to increase over a period of time
and lastly it's a precursor for
something called glutathione to help you
Det toxify now another form of magnesium
that a lot of people are taking is
called magnesium
lonate that specific type of magnesium
is a bit more expensive but it's a
little bit better for your brain so if
you're trying to take magnesium for more
cognitive improvements then that would
be the form that I would recommend are
there any side effects for magnesium
glycinate and there's really only two
that I found and one would be low blood
pressure but you'd have to take a lot of
it over a period of time and you might
end up with a lower amount of blood
pressure so this might be good for
someone with high blood pressure but
it's not going to be significant it just
might be a little bit lower than it
should which might be a good thing
because it causes this vasod dilation
effect which actually will increase
circulation the other thing about
magnesium glycinate is it does tend to
interfere with certain medications so
you want to check with your doctor uh it
can inhibit the function or the
effectiveness of certain medic
medications but as far as the laxative
effect it's not going to create much of
a laxative effect as other types of
magnesium but that also depends on your
dosage if you're taking a lot of it with
all this magnesium from the food and
maybe in other supplements it could
contribute to more of a diarrhea
situation in which case you're going to
have to kind of reduce the dosage from
one of your supplements or this one
specifically now where do we get
magnesium from the diet
primarily it is involved in chlorophyll
it's at the heart of the chlorophyll
molecule that's that green stuff in
Plants as in leafy green vegetables the
chemistry of this green chlorophyll is
very similar to the chemistry of our own
blood but with some very unique
differences so with chlorophyll we have
this magnesium that tends to be on the
green side and then with blood we have
iron which is on the red side but one of
the best sources of magnesium is just by
consuming enough leafy greens as in
salads and other leafy greens so even if
you took three cups of dark leaf or
green vegetables every single day you
would probably get the amounts of
magnesium you would need as the
recommended amounts but of course you
have to realize that um you're not going
to absorb 100% of that it's going to be
a portion of that so you might need to
have more but my point is that the rdas
for magnesium for men is rough roughly
about
420 and for women is about 320 that's
just the uh amount of magnesium that you
need to prevent a deficiency but not
necessarily uh the therapeutic dosage
that you might need if you have a severe
imbalance and one of the problems with
magnesium as far as testing it in the
blood goes is you're not going to be
able to really detect a magnesium
deficiency because the majority I'm
talking about 99% of all the magnes
magesium is inside the cell not outside
the cell in the blood so a blood test is
not going to give you a lot of
information you wouldd want to do what's
called an intracellular magnesium test
and I will put a link down below for
that information magnesium is also
another Foods as well it's in fish it's
in nuts like cashews so I hope you now
know more about this magnesium glycinate
it's a fascinating supplement that has
huge benefits and there's a lot more to
know about magnesium if you have not
seen my other video on magnesium I put
that up right here check it out
