today I'm going to share with you how to
improve your eyesight naturally without
these things right here glasses I cannot
stand these glasses and they call them
corrective lenses but do they really
correct anything no the more you wear
them the more that you need a stronger
prescription in fact when I wear these
especially for long periods of time oh
my gosh my eyes are killing me did you
realize that by the age of 45 most
people need glasses what is going on I
think this video will be a game changer
for you if you have this very specific
problem that I want to share with you
it's something that the eye doctors
rarely test for unfortunately in the
routine eye test did a little Deep dive
and I found there's this other thing
called contrast sensitivity loss the
loss of being able to differentiate
different Shades of Gray things will
look blurry especially if there's not
enough light this is definitely a
breakdown with the retina and it could
be also the lens but it's a different
problem you when you go to an eye doctor
they'll put a chart up with the letters
and you have black letters on a white
background that is actually high
contrast they're evaluating different
problems with the eye that are not
necessarily related to this contrast
sensitivity loss that's a completely
different test and it's not a routine
thing that they test for if someone has
this loss of contrast sensitivity adding
more light can greatly help the person
see that doesn't actually fix the
problem it helps you compensate for the
problem there's certain patents there's
certain research done that if a person
starts to increase certain antioxidants
in the eye that can improve this
condition why would an antioxidant
improve your vision you normally have
several antioxidant in the retina area
that protect the eye against Blue Light
if you look at the spectrum of light out
of all the different individual
waveforms blue light is the highest
energy it can create most damage this is
probably why we have these antioxidants
in the eye to protect our eyes from blue
light and the category of antioxidants
is called carotenoids these antioxidants
not just protect you against Blue Light
they protect you against all sorts of
problems in the eye being a diabetic or
pollution or any chemicals in the body
that go through the eye those
antioxidants can actually protect the
eye as we age our carotenoids go down
our protection in the eye goes down as
well when you're 20 years old you have
this super concentrated density of
antioxidants in the back of the eye in
the re out then you get older 45 50 59
like myself it's significantly lower
then the efficiency of absorbing light
goes down by age 65 you need twice as
much light to be able to see like you
did when you're 20 years old because you
no longer have the efficiency of
absorbing light like you used to this is
why adding more light will help you but
it doesn't solve the problem it only
gives you a temporary solution and so
one solution is definitely to get an
extra light make sure you get a bulb
that is a full spectrum light and like
and you want to actually shine it on
what you're reading and studying and you
will be able to see better but we need
to do something else to increase the
efficiency of your retina let's get into
what you need to do to correct that our
ancestors did not spend all day long
inside in a dim room looking at a cell
phone flipping through Tik Tok videos
our eyes were not designed to do that
our eyes were designed to interact with
the Sun's light of course in
1980 the introduction of sun phobia like
fearing the sun was introduced with all
sorts of sunscreen and all sorts of
sunglasses which by the way make you
look really cool but they definitely
stop that light from going into the eye
regular dose of natural sunlight on the
eyes is a very therapeutic thing why
well one reason is you get UV light into
the eye infrared and infrared is very
healing to the eyes infrared also builds
up melatonin in the eyes which is one of
the most powerful antioxidants in your
cells this entire Sun phobia I think was
a huge mistake UV radiation to the eyes
is not nearly a problem if you have the
protection the carotenoids you want to
get more light into your desk or
wherever you're studying you need to
start eating foods high in lutein and
zanthin these are two carotenoids that
you can find in egg yolks but the
problem with egg yolks is if you consume
egg yolks from a commercial egg not a
pasturas egg you're going to get three
times less catenoids with commercial
eggs there are also a lot of supplements
out there that you can get that have
lutein and zanthin I'm going to
recommend that you find one that has at
least 10 milligrams of lutein and 2
milligrams of zanthin also if you can
find one that has olive oil in it or MCT
oil or some fat that can help the
absorption because catenoids are fat
sble another solution is just to take
this supplement when you're eating food
because they're going to get absorbed a
lot better in this one paper significant
Improvement in decreasing macular
degeneration improving the loss of
contrast sensitivity by taking these two
carotenoids for 12 weeks also highly
recommend you at the same time stop
consuming seed oils I'm talking about in
the salad dressing and the mayonnaise
soy oil the canola oil the cotton seed
oil the sunflower oil these are very
high in omega-6 and they can go into our
membranes in the eye and they can
interfere with the retina it's a great
paper on this which was given to me by
Dr Chris Kenobi who's an opthalmologist
who specializes in the eye that paper
was really about uh getting rid of the
seed oils and replace it with an
ancestral diet uh something that's more
a natural diet that doesn't have all the
refined Foods another important food to
consume would be fatty fish salmon
because the omega-3 are really good for
the eye also to reduce inflammation of
the eye as well you think about it the
retina is just an extension of the brain
and the retina needs DHA that's a
omega-3 fat acid and you can get that in
fish oil or cod liver oil let's come
back to the topic of vitamin D is that
important for the eye wow it really is I
looked at the research in vitamin D
every uh part of the eye is improved
with vitamin D A lot of conditions are
improved too like Goma there's research
by another opthamologist from Germany
who gets fantastic results with high
doses of vitamin D for glucoma which is
an increased pressure in the eye there's
a lot of research on taking vitamin D
for macular degeneration using vitamin D
to help reduce uh the complications of
retinopathy which is eye damage from
diabetes I recommend you take at least
10,000 IUS of vitamin D3 every single
day of course vitamin A which is
actually in egg yolks is very important
in the eye as well if you lose vitamin A
it's hard to see at night in summary you
need to get outside more if you're in
front of your desk and computer cell
phone for a long period of time need to
get outside and get sunlight and the
meantime you can get another full
spectrum light that shines more lights
so you can actually wear these less that
will give you time to build up your
carotenoids in the eye because as you
age you have less carotenoids and now
the efficiency of absorbing light is
going to be less Lutine zanthin are the
two that you need to build up over a
period of three months of course eat
foods high in that as well egg yolks
civer oil vitamin D throw some zinc in
there that can help as well the reason
why most people need glasses at age 45
is because our eyes were designed to be
outside not in front of a computer
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next video
