anytime you understand warning signs to
predict what's going to happen to your
body before it happens is a very
valuable thing there's a great book one
of my favorite books called the
technology of War it's by sunu having
Advanced knowledge so you can predict
things now this book they're talking
about Advanced knowledge of an enemy
coming so you have knowledge about if
you want to go to battle with them or
not but what I like to apply this to is
your body having Advanced knowledge of
what's going on and reading different
indicators of your body is so important
the problem in healthcare is when you go
to the doctor and you have these clues
or symptoms whatever they treat them
directly they don't use them to
understand what's going on but what if
you were to use these indicators
differently to help understand what the
body really needs so I'm going to go
through eight diseases and give you some
of the warning signs that your body is
trying to let you know there's a problem
so you can do something and prevent this
problem from occurring so let's start
with the first one heart attack or
cardiovascular disease so the warning
signs for that are usually chest pain
pain in your left jaw pain in your left
shoulder or pain that goes down the left
arm or maybe when you climb stairs or go
anything up an incline you don't feel
right something feels off whether it's
you feel out of breath dizzy this could
be the beginning of a heart attack and
one really good test to get is called
the CAC test this is a relatively quick
test that can measure the calcification
inside your arteries which is a really
good predictor of whether you're going
to have a heart attack or not one of the
best things to take as a natural remedy
is uh vitamin E in the form of tokat
trinal another good remedy is vitamin K2
because that helps remove calcium in the
arteries and of course radically change
your diet all right all right number two
stroke some of the early warning signs
of a stroke or that you're getting a
stroke could be anything on one side of
your body being a problem let's say you
smile and the left side of your face
just doesn't quite move or you raise
both of your arms up and one arm doesn't
go up those are classic examples that
you could be having a stroke another one
is your speech is slurred so when you
have a stroke there's always this short
period of time where you can do
something about it quickly and uh they
can give you a certain medication that
thins the blood to uh get rid of the
clotting because the problem with a
stroke is a lack of oxygen in a certain
part of your brain is called epoxy and
the longer that your brain goes without
oxygen the more damage that can occur so
the best thing to do is to go to the
emergency room and get that checked out
art number three an infection some of
the early warning signs would be like a
little tickle in your throat this
irritating cough that won't go away or
maybe uh it's you're excessively
sneezing or you might have a running
nose all of these can be indicators that
your body is coming down with something
the most important thing to do would be
to take vitamin D3 in large amounts I'm
talking about 50,000 IUS uh adding some
zinc and vitamin C would also be helpful
if you have any easia around that's
another good one and then also just to
stay really hot and warm to the point
where you're sweating so if you can
generate a fever that can actually
quickly kill it off versus what a lot of
people do is they'll take some
medication to suppress the fever which
is the very thing that's going to help
you overcome the virus in fact when
people take aspirin to cut the fever
down now the duration of the infection
is longer all right number four fatty
liver disease one of the warning signs
for that would be like a full feeling or
maybe even a tender or tightness
underneath the right rib cage that some
sometimes refers to the right shoulder
this this trap this muscle right here or
it could even go back into the romboid
all of that is more liver gallbladder
kind of swollen could be a fatty liver
but one of the big indications of the
fatty liver is that your stomach is
protruding you have belly fat the extras
spilling off into and around the organs
in your midsection in the lower part of
your body other symptoms of fatty liver
could be itchy skin the solution for
that is to go on a low carb healthy
ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting
and you're going to have to definitely
avoid alcohol eating frequently like
snacks and you may even want to take
some choline which actually can help
strip off fat from the liver all right
number five gall stones some of the
warning signs for a gall stone would be
your urine is darker your stool floats
your stool is light colored or you might
have constipation all of those items
that I I mentioned are a symptom of low
bile salts bile salts are made by the
liver stored in the gallbladder and when
you don't have enough bile you start
developing uh a super concentrated
Crystal form of cholesterol if you had
enough bile it would dissolve all that
cholesterol but you don't so now you get
these cholesterol stones that are
developing because you don't have enough
bile so the solution for this is to add
more bile salts and then do that for a
period of time next disease I want to
talk about is kidney stones one of the
early warning signs of a kidney stone is
a kind of a deep pain that is either on
the left abdominal area or the right
side or it could be in the back part
called flank pain which is usually going
to be like a a dull achy like pain on
one side there this little tube between
your kidney and then the bladder called
the urer and a lot of times if the stone
is uh stuck in there or right before
that at the level of the kidney that can
back up pressure and you can feel pain
especially in the uh deeper part of your
abdomen so if you have this what I would
recommend is you start doing lemon juice
like at least 2 ounces with water you
can drink it down fresh lemon or just
lemon juice because you need that citric
acid to help it combined with the
oxalates which are the most common uh
Stone combine with that at least two
half liters of fluid a day because that
way you can prevent the super saturation
from happening another really good thing
to take would be magnesium I would take
magnesium glycinate and I would also
avoid foods high in oxalates okay that
would be almonds and almond flour uh
chocolate and spinach all right number
seven an ulcer now what kind of early
warning signs would be an ulcer well
there's not really any early warning
signs but there are signs because most
of the time there's it's asymptom atic
if you have an ulcer you're going to
have uh pain or burning pain in your
stomach area you'll feel better when you
eat now if you eat and you get stomach
pain usually that's not an ulcer that's
indigestion because you don't have
enough stomach acid and the remedy for
that would be Bane hydrochloride but if
you have pain on an empty stomach and
you have an ulcer if you added Bane
hydrochloride which is an acid that's
going to make it worse which then you'll
know it's an acid right and the remedy
for that would be wheat grass juice
powder with water and then drink that
down as a chlorophyll healing agent
another good remedy would be zinc
carnosine whether you have an alcer in
the stomach or the small intestine and
then number eight diabetes okay what are
some early warning signs of diabetes
it's very difficult for you to skip a
meal without being really super hungry
you may be hangry which is kind of a
combination of hungry and angry
irritated when you don't eat and then
you feel better or you're nicer to be
around when you eat you may also crave
carbs you may need a nap after you eat
you may also have puffy eyelids you
might have worsened vision and even
start to have this urinary frequency
thing where you start to urinate more
and you're more thirsty and this just
blows my mind uh what the medical
profession does for diabetes I mean they
give you a medication to lower your
blood sugar but they don't change your
diet you need to get off carbs you need
to go low carb and you don't want to be
eating all these snacks we want to do
intermittent fasting and the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet now I've
done a lot of videos on how to use
various Clues to figure things out if
you have not seen this video I think
you'll be very interested in
it
