hey guys I want to introduce you to a
new word it's called a GE advanced
glycation end-products okay what is that
well it's this compound that is created
when you combine high levels of sugar in
the body with a protein or a fat okay
and this compound is very sticky and it
clogs up the small blood vessels of the
eyes of the heart of the brain and the
kidney so like the protein it's called
amyloid plaques in the brain in
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's or in the
kidney in diabetes or where you have you
know you have visual problems with the
diabetic retinopathy with the eyes or a
clogged artery so these AG es are one of
the factors that are creating the damage
in the body from high sugar so you can
also get a G's from the diet when you're
combining sugar with proteins so let's
say you made some barbecued ribs with
some sugar sauce on there and you're on
it's on the grill well that's going to
create a G es or let's say you eat a
doughnut we have deep fried donut where
you have the carbohydrate starch with
the fat you're gonna create those or go
to McDonald's and have the french fry
that's loaded with the sugar same deal
okay now how to prevent it well cut out
the sugar don't eat the sugars in
combination with these other things
vitamin C is great to prevent the damage
from a G's and benfotiamine which is a
fat soluble B vitamin if you take this
it actually prevents the damage to the
nerves to the eyes now if you actually
have nerve damage to your feet this is
great to reverse the nerve damage
especially in something called
peripheral neuropathy with we have
tingling and numbness on the and the
fingertips and the toes then photo mean
can reverse that b6 also can help
prevent the damage alpha lipoic acid can
prevent the damage and so can
phytonutrients so here's just another so
here's just another reason why you
should start consuming healthy foods to
protect your cells from the damage of
high sugar so the good thing is you've
been watching my videos
you don't eat sugar anymore you would
never combine sugar with protein or
sugar with fat so you have nothing to
worry about
all right I'll see you the next video
hey guys I want to personally invite you
to a new Facebook group that I just
started called dr. Berg's Kido and in a
minute fasting lab okay so I created
this so we can share our successful
actions what worked what didn't work the
results so I put a link down below so go
ahead and sign up and I'll see you
inside
