hello dr. Berg here in this video we're
going to share with you some data on
protein there's nine points I want to
bring up starting with digestibility a
lot of times people when they get older
they can't digest red meat like they
used to
okay why is that because the collagen in
the red meat is actually more plentiful
than in white meat and so when they
start to consume it it becomes more
difficult to digest they get indigestion
and it doesn't seem to process that well
okay so that's a factor so you maybe you
can't consume that much if that's the
case you can either you know you do a
different type of protein or you can add
more Petain how to chloride or apple
cider vinegar to make your stomach acids
more acidic because it's really the acid
pH that helps activate the enzymes for
protein in the stomach that allow you to
digest the collagen that you need for
your joints and ligaments and tendons so
rather than not consumers need and you
know be lacking that collagen absorption
why not just get your stomach really
strong as you age in the 40s 50s and 60s
you start losing your stomach acids and
that's the problem that most people have
especially if you're taking any acids or
you're taking any type of medication
that it gets rid of stomach acid okay
so and then also lean vs. fatty protein
believe it or not it's easier to digest
fatty or protein than lean protein like
if you did whey protein powder versus a
fatty hamburger not with the bun but
just regular hamburger the fatty
hamburger is much easier to digest with
her or not so apparently in mother
nature's design protein always come with
fat you never see just lean protein in
nature so just consume it as its whole
form not some lean anything or low-fat
anything sometimes people have an
allergy to seafood so that would be an
allergy so you're not going to digest it
you're going to react to it you're going
to reject it or like camp
protein powder when I consume that my
body just cannot digest that so that
would be the source of protein but I can
digest it bloats me or let's say you're
allergic to casein
Milk Protein you're going to of course
you can't digest it or peanuts so you
can't digest the protein and peanuts
so that would be a digestive factor to
look at okay number two stress in the
adrenals the more stress you experience
the more the adrenals are active the
more cortisol is going to be released
and we have more cortisol you get more
of a catabolic
effect that's a more of a breakdown
effect so here you have the situation
where you're breaking down protein
faster that's building back up so you
didn't have an accelerated breakdown
process of protein and it's not coming
back up you're going to need to consume
a little more protein so that's why
adrenal cases or adrenal weakness or
adrenal body type cases need more amino
acids or protein than people that don't
have that problem simply because they
are breaking down more protein than
they're building back up one point to
consider okay number three the quality
of protein
make sure it's grass-fed if at all
possible make sure it's organic without
hormones wild-caught fish nut
farm-raised pasture-raised eggs these
are all real key points of quality
number four insulin so if your insulin
resistance or you're diabetic you're not
going to have that little key that opens
the door that allows the amino acids to
go in there so you're going to be
deficient in proteins that's why a lot
of times it's hard to get toned or you
might have loose collagen or hanging
tissue from your body so you're going to
need a little bit more amino acid but
the main thing you're going to need to
do is fix the problem with insulin I
have tons of videos on that because even
consuming more protein is not going to
fix it okay it's just one factor to
consider next one is number five is the
protein complete if you're a vegan
you're going to have to combine
different foods to get your complete
protein profile but eggs have a complete
protein profile animal products do as
well but eggs are really good for a
complete protein all right next one is
number six the amount of protein make
sure it's not excessive don't do this
massive amount of protein that is like
10 12 14
I'll stake that thing do between three
to six ounces that's all your body needs
anything more it's going to strain the
liver it's important now let's talk
about a growth hormone growth hormone
interacts with protein in that it helps
spare proteins in other words it
prevents muscle loss so when you
stimulate growth hormone it helps to
preserve your own muscle protein in your
own collagen all the protein on your
body so that would be in a minute of
fasting so by not eating for a period of
time you actually spike growth hormone
by 2,000 percent and preserve your
muscle protein so you'll prevent muscle
loss and other protein proteins as well
so this is important intense exercise
will help you good sleep will help you
as well those are the main things with
that now cook versus raw the more cooked
a protein product is the worse it is so
if you're having a steak have it more
rare than overly cooked very important
with this to actually get more amino
acid absorption okay stomach pH very
common problem if you are getting older
or you had a history of indigestion or
even heartburn or acid reflux that means
you don't have enough acid and that's
why I recommend apple cider vinegar with
each meal or you can get them in tablets
and that will start building up your ph
to allow you to digest and assimilate
more of this protein so those are the
nine factors of protein make mental note
of it thanks for watching hey you
probably already subscribed but if you
haven't press this little button down
below and I will keep you updated
