let's talk about the seven instant pain
relief hacks that will blow you away
now used to teach chiropractors and
physical therapists these techniques but
I adapted them to the duty or self so
for some of these techniques you're
gonna need help from another person so
the first one is for shoulder pain
you're gonna be laying on your stomach
now if you need help on your left
shoulder you're gonna have someone work
on the opposite calf muscle okay if you
have pain on the right shoulder you're
gonna have them work on the left calf
now I'm going to give you an example how
to do this but the reason this works is
because of circuits you actually walk so
this shoulder your right shoulder is
opposite to your left foot and then you
take another step and the left shoulder
is opposite to your right foot so we
have this crossover electrical circuitry
connecting the right shoulder with your
left foot and the left shoulder with
your right foot so let me show you how
to do this right now the problem is on
her right shoulder right so we're gonna
work on the opposite calf right through
here and I'm going to press right into
the cap and work all this up through
here now it's going to be tender on the
opposite side right through here so just
going to work on this I'd like to work
on the Achilles tendon right through
here and really just kind of massage
this for about I don't know two hours no
I'm just kidding just about a minute or
so okay so we're gonna do that right
through here so you're gonna work on
that okay now sit back up okay so now go
ahead and raise the arm up now yeah
better yeah okay it's better how much
better on a scale from 1 to 10 like
all right you're back for the next
technique this next one is quite amazing
and basically what you're going to do is
you're going to find an area of pain in
your body and you're simply going to
press on the opposite side the mirror
image side so if you have pain on one
side you'll press on the opposite side
and what I mean by press is massage so
to get rid of pain on one side of your
body you're going to be applying
pressure of the opposite side so let's
show you how to do that what you're
going to do is you find out where it's
hurting on this side and you press on
the mirror image so let's say the mirror
image is right on the top part we're
just going to massage this now you could
do it on yourself
okay but you could also press have
someone do it on you and just show them
how to do it head and watch this video
so you rub that right there okay so that
should get rid of the pain right there
but the key is getting the mirror image
exact spot when you rub this now the way
you know you have the exact spot it'll
be really really really tender okay
you'll find one spot the person will go
wow that hurts well then we just spend
time and work that out but we're not
done yet
we have to work on the muscle connected
to the elbow going up don't worry about
going down just going up so we're gonna
work on the elbow and then we're going
to work on the muscles on the opposite
side and you're going to work on the
bicep and the tricep okay on the back
part and you're gonna massage these
right here okay alright welcome back so
we're going to talk about the right
shoulder a lot of people have pain on
the right shoulder we want to make sure
it's not coming from the gallbladder
there's a nerve called the phrenic nerve
that goes from the gallbladder up to the
right shoulder so if you're having
therapy on the right shoulder for weeks
and weeks and months and months with no
stabilizing results chances are it's not
in your shoulder it's being referred
from something else so in this technique
I'm going to show you how to deal with
it check this out so here's here's the
problem if you consume too much nut or
seeds or peanut butter it is severely
aggravating to the gallbladder
and the ducts that connect to that
gallbladder all right so just be aware
of that and many time you're looking for
a snack that is a quick it's satisfying
and you'll have these nuts if you do too
much it's going to irritate this gall
bladder but it's it's you may feel a
little bloating okay you're gonna feel a
little bloating in your stomach but
there's a little nerve that goes right
to that gall bladder and it goes riding
up to the liver and it goes right up to
the shoulder and right up to the neck
and up to the head in other words this
little nerve will be pinched down here
like you're stepping on a dog's tail but
he's going to bark over here and you're
gonna have neck pain on the right side
or the shoulder anywhere on the shoulder
it could even go all the down to your
right leg so anything on the right side
the body and even on the right shoulder
blade on the right side behind your
shoulder
you'll feel a little thing on the back
where it's tight all the way through
here and you will swear it's probably a
neck pain or a shoulder problem when in
fact it's those nuts so realize that
could be one of the sources of that all
right you're back this next technique is
pretty cool you're going to be checking
the range of motion in certain areas of
your body and you're going to compare
the right to the left the front and the
back and you're looking for areas of
restriction and to fix this restriction
you're going to be stretching in the
opposite direction so here's an example
of that so anytime we have a muscle
that is constantly in the state of
tightness or contraction it's on so we
can either stimulate the opposite muscle
with pressure or we can actually stretch
the opposite muscle okay so now if this
muscles not going down this way we're
gonna be stretching the opposite way
this way so I'm going to stretch all the
way here and then relaxed stretch for a
second relax so all I'm doing is
stretching in the the opposite direction
that's all so if I do this for about 10
times stretching it really good she's
gonna start being able to stretch down
here much better see how that works all
right welcome back
I have another technique for you this is
the scapular stretch it's wonderful for
neck stiffness a lot of your neck
stiffness is not coming from your neck
it's coming from your shoulders
and in this next technique all you need
is a folding chair let's show you now
I'm going to show you on the back part
right through here you're gonna take
your scapula okay this is just bone back
there and you're gonna kind of wing it
out a little bit and get hooked on the
chair and you're gonna just slouch down
and stretch this whole shoulder upward
okay so you can see that I hooked the
tip of my scapula and that back part of
the chair and I'm just going to sit here
for about a minute and just push upward
and by slouching my body backward okay
then I'm going to shift and work on the
other scapula I know this looks weird
but it seems to work so I'm just gonna
slosh back and I'm pushing my shoulder
upward and working on the opposite
muscles will send signals to the traps
and relax your trap muscles you just
need to try it and you will see that it
will work
alright you back for the next technique
now what happens if you're punching the
nose where's the opposite side of the
nose what are you gonna do about that
this technique shows you how to deal
with trauma to the nose and many people
have either been punched in the nose
they've been traumatized from some
injury to the nose whether it's a car
accident or falling down or whatever
this technique will produce amazing
relief and actually help you breathe so
check this out so what we're going to do
is I'm going to show you how to fix this
injury because the trauma goes right to
the nose the the force travels to the
next bone over so the force is stuck in
the little joints next to the nose and
then on the top right here so we're
going to do is we're going to press into
the nose this way but not on the nose so
we're gonna take this bone right here
and press into it right there and this
should be a little bit tender
tender mm-hmm yeah so we're pressing
into it right underneath the I don't
poke the eye out I'm not giving you the
middle finger mm-hmm so we're just kind
of pressing right into it this way and
then we'll do the other side so we're
going to come into the nose this way
pressing and holding for about an hour
what this is doing releasing the old
tension around the nose
I mean trauma gets stuck in the tissues
it's like a force that gets stuck as a
standing wave and you can do this to any
injury but the nose is a common one for
people that had surgery to the nose
broken nose got punched the nose okay
now there's a suture in the top part so
we want to come down this way right into
the nose all right you're back for the
last technique this involves skull
injuries if you've ever had an injury
and cracked your skull or had some type
of trauma to your skull you need to know
this technique so check it out I'm gonna
show you what to do what you do is you
massage the opposite side so let me just
take a look so that's right around here
right so they actually took the skull on
Friday
you ever did okay so what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna press on the opposite
mirror image side and I'm just gonna
show you I'm just massaging now the way
that you know you get the right spot is
it's gonna be very tender like really
tender so you tell me where the tender
is a tenderness is let me see
okay so tell me if it's anywhere through
here I close here or here I'd say
they're right there okay once you find
the tenderness you just work it out
because when you actually have a surgery
or injury it can shift the plates in the
head there's actually joints in your
skull sutures are called how about
through here yes so it's always gonna be
tender more tender on the opposite side
and I'm just gonna massage this for
about an hour
now I'm just kidding huh yeah just feels
really tight yeah and this is on the
good side huh
it's really wild it'll always be twin
tender on the opposite side I'm just
pressing on the exact place that he had
incision on the opposite side okay so
now I'm just going to kind of push it
upward the thing you what you don't want
to do is press on the side where we had
the incision so now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to take my thumb I'm gonna
press up on this suture suture is a
joint between the skulls feel that
mm-hmm just when you do this you just
have to make sure that you don't mess up
the hair it's the most important thing I
mean you you know they put him out when
they cut the skull but still the body
retains memory now one little secret
okay so what we want to do if the
injuries on this side we want to press
into the injury so I can also press down
this way on the eyebrow because he
actually someone stepped on his head
he's playing basketball six years
previous so I'm right here I'm just
gonna press on here tell me when it's
tender here here here yep okay just
doing the opposite side and kind of
covering up I'm doing this but let's see
if I can just do it like this I'm not
flipping you off right through in here
and said what it is yeah okay mm-hmm so
we just have to make sure the next time
someone steps on your head you have to
duck and dodge faster so they don't
actually land in the skull now what
we're gonna do he had a compression
injury when he was three so I'm going to
kind of like I'm gonna lift up on the
skull and like here's the back of his
skull right see this thing I'm gonna
lift up right here and stretch
all of this to kind of like undo the
compression that he had this feel good
or bad yeah that's good
so I'm tractioning the connection
between the skull and the first vertebra
which he fractured this is going to help
you sleep and it's just kind of this is
how you should feel normally hey guys I
hope you enjoy that before you go I have
one last very cool video on referral
pain check it out
