hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the real function of your appendix
we've been taught that we don't need the
appendix it's an extra thing that we can
remove without any problem but it
actually has a critical function the
appendix is a two to four inch little
tube that extends off the large
intestine so we have the small intestine
right here and then it meets the large
intestine so at the very start of the
large intestine is where the appendix is
located
you have the ileocecal valve right
through here so the purpose of this
little sac which is basically lymphatic
tissue so it does produce antibodies and
white blood cells and it helps you with
infection etc but the real big purpose
is this it acts like a reservoir for
good bacteria in case you need to
repopulate the colon after diarrhea
after antibiotics and the reason why I
think people get sometimes get it
infected where they have to remove it is
because they're just their diet is poor
and I'm eating a lot of sugar so if
you're following my recommendations
you're probably not going to get
appendicitis and there's one more point
about the appendix and this is just a
little extra little tip if you had the
appendix removed okay a lot of times
you'll develop scar tissue in the right
lower abdomen area and I've found in
practice working with a lot of people
that scar tissue can somehow obstruct
the nerves that go down into the right
leg into the knee so there's a
connection between appendix removal scar
tissue and right knee pain so if you
have right knee pain and you had your
appendix out try this experiment okay
just massage the right lower abdomen
stretch it out stretch that scar tissue
out and see if your right knee pain goes
away in many cases it will so put your
comments down and let me know if it'd
work for you thanks for watching hey if
you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quints
