all right so welcome everyone we have a
great interview today
aisha is with us and hello hi hi so nice
to find a donkey nice meeting you too
and so what I want to do is I wanted to
I saw you before and after I am very
impressed and I wanted to get to know
your story and what happened before and
then after can you tell me a little bit
about yourself as far as your you know
weight or health in the past yeah so I
always struggled with weight I remember
being in kindergarten and you know being
teased for having like a belly or chubby
like I was always like the chubby kid in
college so I was always bullied and but
and you know eventually as I grew water
as a committee in a genetic I was always
rapidly gaining weight and I wasn't
really doing any so I didn't know why
what was the reason why am i gaining
weight so because I was eating the same
muse my friends were the same stuff my
siblings were eating so why is it that I
was gaining weight so just recently I
found out that I have something called
insulin resistance
so that's why you know I was putting on
so much weight and I've done everything
I can crash tires I've been on extreme
weight loss program they like help
temporarily I do like about 4 to 5 kg
and then as soon as I stopped I gained
it all back it feels like I gained it
overnight and what where do you live are
you in India no I'm in Karachi Pakistan
and what's the food like over there is
it really healthy and all really low
carb no no no no no no no it's a very
high car lot of needs ourselves nons and
what we use is not healthy at all people
are becoming health-conscious but we all
really have access to good quality like
vegetables and fruits and it's cheaper
to eat like flour rice and pasta so yeah
so Rice's rice is really big there right
yeah right and also fly flour wheat
flour Wow no wonder you had struggles
are there people to gaining weight as
well oh yes yes
like it in Pakistan
like the number-one killer like diabetes
everybody is diabetic like everyone I
know their families is like the
grandparents I did time I take depends a
diabetic I'm pre-diabetic my doctors
have told me that's the thing you know
because it's all because of my diet Wow
question your grandparents growing up in
Pakistan was there a problem back then
let's say you know seven years ago I
think maybe not as much but yes I think
the dice then was super maybe they just
had smaller quantities because like my
grandparents what is told me that we
were formed like poor backgrounds if we
didn't have a lot to eat so maybe they
ate less but it was I think generally
two things interesting
and then the other question I had was
has like GMO foods gotten into Pakistan
yet are they growing genetically
modified foods there now yes like we
have seen lots of videos on Facebook as
well you know not just like I see like
pictures of babies being dyed and we
have watermelons that are being
repainted with can't and like vision
that that's the concern you know I keep
seeing all the thing I try to eat
healthy but then I do I'm not sure if my
like even if my salads are you know if
tinder is a husband I'm seeing on social
media so so even if I'm eating healthy I
don't really know anything here oh my
gosh so here you are going along
struggling with your weight and then at
what point did you hit your worst weight
where you're like okay that's it I can't
get any bigger oh that was two years ago
I think do one and a half two years ago
yeah I was like I was really really
overweight and then I tried you know I
went on an extreme weight loss program
is called fortitude a challenge here in
Pakistan and I lost about 4 kg and it
was like a month and a half long and I
only lost like four kids but that's also
because the diet you know I have insulin
resistance and they are cute eat sweet
potatoes and have one apple have a
smoothie and it just did not suit me
didn't work for me and I always knew
that you know this is the some
long there must be something else for me
and then in December last year I was I
had to attend a wedding my one of my
closest friends was getting married and
I wanted to look fit and I tried using
wait I did lose some weight I lost like
5 kgs and you know I got a lot of
interest around my waist and I look good
for a few days but once the wedding was
over and I get told back and then I
think I was on YouTube just like just
searching about insulin resistance and
what it really is because I just didn't
really know what it was and then I came
across one of your videos about cars and
insulin resistance it was just like two
or three minutes nah I was like okay
there's all the other videos in like 45
minutes long I can't watch those so I
started watching videos and I loved it
and I watched all of them in one go and
then it was like you know I just clicked
when I saw that video on insulin
resistance and how are you supposed to
eat less frequently or else if I could
incident and then I was like okay this
makes so much sense maybe you know I was
eating healthy before when I was Swingle
guys but I was eating like five six
seven times a day so even if it was the
salad and grilled fish I was still you
know getting a lot of it so it's like it
just made sense it was like your videos
and I some pieces of jigsaw puzzle you
know they all fit and I was like okay
something in me just service just like a
light bulb went off and like okay I'm
going to have to try this I know it's
going to work this time so and yeah ever
since it's been seven months now but I'm
not going to count this one because I'm
in slim and it's a month of ramadhan so
I have to eat two meals a day or as I
was just eating one meal a day and so in
December I just first thing I did was I
got rid of all sugar I just was like I'm
not going to have any sugar
I got rid of all the pie from the white
carbs no rice no potatoes no nothing and
I started losing a lot of weight so the
first 5 kgs I lost it felt like I lost
an overnight but I was like now you know
I've done this before I got the 4 kgs I
gained it back but then I was like very
consistent
consistency was key for me I was a
patient inconsistent and I said I
started noticing that I started I was
still losing weight and before I knew it
I had lost 10kg and I think it I was
like I lost most weight by much mid
March beginning of April I was a chemist
and then I went on vacation I mean the
vacations with my family and I was at
that time I started having like I was
already having one here today but you
know I mean I went there and they were
like house parties and you were going
out and I was eating stuff so what way
did you start it and what wait did you
end up at at your lowest um my highest
weight was 102 kg and I think it was aa
Durden uh in pounds almost over that's
really dated we don't think it's 2.2
pounds
okay that's fine and then how many I'll
have to use my calculator I'm terrible
at math so then at the your lowest
weight how many kgs right now my lowest
was 90 kg 90 okay good yeah so right now
I'm 91.3 I just checked but that's
because I've been eating a lot of fruit
for six months I had no food nothing not
even a bite of food except occasionally
we'll be very we make at home but other
than that I had no app because once I
heard you say that a that an axle has 90
grams of sugar I was like I was so
shocked and I stopped eating it and
people look at me like I'm crazy
right yeah but it helped so when you ate
one meal a day what did you eat um I
usually eat like five to six eggs and
eats like a pig on it I put an entire
capsicum inner in the two lots of
tomatoes and onion and I put soy in some
like turmeric and salt and pepper and
red chili and I just you know make like
a giant omelet and I eat that so it's
like a breakfast but not really I eat
around
I eat around with me around 12:30 1:00
o'clock but I am starting to like I'm
going to start eating often of the on
ends I'm going to eat around me so that
I can like you know no longer like
because around sometimes I sleep late
and then I'm like I start getting hungry
so I don't want that even though I have
like coconut oil and all of that I have
a regular did you find that you had to
gradually go into eating one meal a day
do you still like to and then eventually
one and then you're good
yes so in December I started like from
the beginning of December I started with
three meals a day and then I came down
to two musicals a day quite quickly like
not even a month yeah it was it was so
easy and I started having to news a day
and then in March I switched to one meal
a day but I still feel like the two
meals a day was the best I said like
most energetic I just loved it and then
the one meal a day was maybe for
psychological thinking oh that's too
crazy one ability are not going to
survive but I'm unsterilized so I think
the one Villa day is fine until I reach
my goal weight sometimes occasionally I
have to miss when you know if I'm like
if I'm doing too many chores and going
out so I feel like any practical news
only then I have to leave as I just have
one enough and I don't get hungry my
skin is glowing always so yeah my skin
has some creepy tasks on okay that's
fascinating because when you when you
drop insulin you improve androgens which
then get rid of acne especially for
women their polycystic ovarian syndrome
thing clears up if you have that but
here's the other here's the other
there's two you have that too there's
there's two points I want to make number
one egg pretty much has almost every
single nutrient almost so it's very
balanced so you can actually do very
well in eggs also the people that I
recommend one meal a days are those
people who either really need to lose a
lot of weight you know they want to lose
it in the fastest way possible and then
are those people who maybe have thyroid
issues and have no metabolism left
because they destroyed it through
dieting over the years and there may be
menopausal
you know they need like one meal a day
and I had bodybuilders there
they are fine but the problem is trying
to get all your nutrients in that one
meal it's a lot of food to consume so
you have to eat such quality and some
people they do they do intermittent
fasting with junk food and I'm like no
you don't want to do that because you
may lose weight but you're you're going
to be unhealthy because you're just
putting garbage in your body so so tell
me so you would do eggs and you do
spices and tomatoes and curium that it's
big big bowls of salad you recommend ten
cups I think I have more than that
because I'm also eating the omelette and
then I'm having like a big salad and it
fills me up sometimes I make a pig likes
chickpea salad
I love chickpea salad I have that I have
lots of um we trust you yeah it fills me
up I don't need food after that I don't
create my you know sugary snacks I used
to crave a lot of chips this time last
year I was having like I was having
snacks regular tea you know I would hang
out with my friends and watch TV shows
and we'd have like popcorn and chips
there it was like a regular thing and
then I had like break out and it was
terrible and held on I don't have a lot
of headaches now I was always struggling
with hair loss also I was I always had a
tight justice problem and like for like
a couple years I was almost constantly
constipated it sounds disgusting yeah
but I was every single day I was just I
just had such terrible concentration
it's not stupid
yeah so I yeah so I just started having
a lot of lemon juice as well and a lot
of apple cider vinegar and that really
helped that was like instant remedy yeah
because that's going to improve your
digestion and then what about your
energy level is that improved yes my
energy doesn't also my memory I have
such terrible maybe I still do but I had
like such horrible nandi 50 in college I
remember I wouldn't even remember what I
had for breakfast that morning or what I
was wearing yesterday what I got for
homework so my memory has really
improved but I still need to improve it
oh yeah I want to talk today I still
need to do the power
- any more candy I think okay well you
know over time it's good at your doing
in a minute fasting with Kido is going
to actually regenerate brain cells it's
going to actually help but it does take
some time to really you know completely
change over people always want want it's
like oh yeah six months I'm going to be
a but it takes longer and then I was
going to ask you do when people look at
you now probably kind of strange like
why aren't you eating all this and
they're probably pushing all this food
with parties and events right so how do
you how do you deal with that people
look at me like I'm crazy you know they
look at me they like wow he's not so
much weird because we know I I never
really lost any weight now all of a
sudden I'm losing weight so and they're
like what what you have what's your meal
plan and what what diet are you
following and like it's not a diet it's
a lifestyle and when I tell them what
I'm eating and how I'm eating is they're
like they look at me like I'm crazy they
give me like such dirty looks like
you're crazy you're going to collapse
one day this is fun healthy and what are
you doing to yourself you're going to
get like this disease and your phones
are going to get weak and blah blah blah
and I'm like look at me and this is the
like Henry's I've been in years
I remember being 11 and 12 and not like
fitting into any jeans not being able to
find clothes yeah so yeah I don't know I
find proof that it's okay they like you
one day you're going to like fly yeah
I'm going to give you a little tip
because I run into that all the time
okay so here's a little tip especially
with family never tell them what you're
doing have them go to a video because
they have to get the why first they have
to get the why you're doing it and
explain a little bit of why versus the
hey just do this because it doesn't seem
to be is impactful because they don't
understand it and it flies against their
fixed ideas and so it's just good
they're going to reject it and I've done
it I mean so many times so sometimes I
feel like when you know I'm telling
somebody I mean they're asking to show
interest and then when I tell
and it feels like it's sad because I
feel like they don't want to listen it's
not like they know that cards aren't
good for you and sugar isn't good for
you but it's like they just don't want
to listen they don't want to stop eating
and it's sad like it hurts me now yeah I
know and I think well because I run into
that as well I'll do something like this
they'll say well you want to know what I
did if I you know of course if I told
you to have to kill you so I just kind
of played with them back and forth and
I'll say well I'll tell you what I will
let you know in about a week from now so
just call me like I'll kind of push them
away get them to reach a little more and
then I'll send into a video but because
here's the thing you have all these
people there are not ready to change
they almost have to hit bottom just like
you did like I did I had to be really
sick before I actually said okay that's
it I'm willing to do whatever it takes
you know so with those people they might
want to know I wouldn't actually tell
them I would just say well go watch this
video and that way they can be a little
bit more enlightened but I do know what
you're running up against it's like
frustrating you want to help everyone
but some people aren't don't want your
help so it's kind of crazy we go out and
eat you know it's like going out with
friends and I all just eat like with a
fork like a barbecue with the fork and
everybody's having like delicious like
nons and Aiden is there everyone goes
like who wants dessert and I'm like I
did you want it but I'm not going to eat
it it it's actually I don't let allow
myself to think as soon as the question
is asked you want to develop no and
sometimes I even surprise myself I'm
like okay I just said that so quickly
but I always did know before I say yes
that is yeah because I think that's your
biggest challenge especially in India or
Pakistan it's like people around you
dealing with all the people around you
with the food and oh my gosh it's just
such a part of the culture like what you
don't want rice are you insane
in potatoes I mean like no thank you
so I know I feel your pain so well this
has been awesome so you've done really
well I've seen the before and after so
we're posting them throughout
this interview so it's quite amazing but
anyway I want to thank you for your
story it's going to inspire a lot of
people and maybe you'll do like a little
follow-up in several months and see you
know when you hit your ultimate goal
we'll just kind of do a little post
video interview thank you so much for
your videos I'm so grateful seriously
such a motivation to watch you think oh
my pleasure thank you okay have a great
afternoon
good bye
