administration of magnesium prior to a
heart attack or even during a heart
attack would prevent and protect the
heart muscle from forming destructive
internal crystals wow that's fascinating
this is mostly ignored or neglected by
doctors when they're dealing with heart
conditions my grandfather died of a
heart problem in his 50s my father
developed Atri fibrillation then he had
an Aion where they destroyed the
pacemaker of the heart and now he's on
permanent medication so because heart
problems run into my family I wanted to
know everything there is to know about
heart problems so I can then prevent it
myself and of course share it with other
people there are four really common
heart problems out there number one
plaing where you get this inflammation
the body comes as a Band-Aid starts
forming calcium and cholesterol deposits
the artery becomes obstructed you no
longer get oxygen to the heart muscle
your heart muscle cramps you get sanina
which is a lack of oxygen and then you
get a heart attack number two is blood
clots this is different because now
you're getting a blood clot that gets
lodged in the heart obstructing the
artery which you then also get a lack of
oxygen and you can potentially get a
heart attack or if it mobilizes
throughout the rest of the body it can
end up in your brain you can end up
getting a stroke number three we can get
atrial fibrillation and so in this
condition you get pooling in certain
parts of the heart or the vascular
system and then you can get a clot that
develops and that can turn into a heart
attack and then number four you have
hypertension high blood pressure okay in
this situation you have this high level
of pressure that can make the arteries
very stiff hardened and if you have
chronic hypertension that really
destroys the kidney as well because the
kidneys cannot tolerate that much
pressure for a long period of time now
what's fascinating is all four of these
problems involve this one common thing a
magnesium deficiency now the very
interesting thing about a magnesium
deficiency is that it's almost
impossible to test when you check the
magnesium in your blood you're only
looking at 1% of your body's magnesium
the great majority of magnesium 99% is
inside the cells not in your blood this
is why a magnesium blood test is not a
reliable way to know if you have
magnesium or not now if we just take a
step back and look at some of the common
medications for the heart and how they
work and the mechanisms they directly
relate to magnesium so let's start out
with the medications called the calcium
channel blockers okay these calcium
channel blockers now what are those well
they block calcium now while you want to
take a medication that blocks calcium
too much calcium in the wrong place can
cause too much contraction so it's the
calcium that causes the contraction and
the Magnesium that causes the relaxation
so magnesium is a natural calcium
channel blocker without the side effects
that some of these drugs create what a
lot of doctors don't know is that
magnesium regulates calcium any
condition you have where there's too
much calcium think magnesium I mean even
in other symptoms if you have this like
little tetany or twitching that's too
much calcium because I don't have enough
magnesium all right let's look at
another type of medication beta blockers
beta blockers block adrenaline relaxing
the arteries allowing more blood flow to
the heart muscle and they also use them
for heart rhythm problems as well well
did you know that magnesium naturally
lowers adrenaline and cortisol this is
why so many people take magnesium before
they go to bed so they can sleep and
they can feel relaxed number three
warrin this is the medication that my
father on because he had Atri fib and
then they put a pacemaker they want to
make sure that there's no extra clotting
going on so he cannot have any foods
with high vitamin K1 because that
creates clotting and they're trying to
keep his blood thin now what's
interesting about this whole clotting
mechanism is that calcium is involved in
clotting and so like I said before
magnesium helps control the excess
calcium and number four you have a lot
of different medications to help lower
blood pressure the arteries have a layer
of muscle and magnesium is a natural
vasodilator this is why magnesium helps
people with high blood pressure why
don't more doctors use magnesium when
treating the heart well number one it's
almost impossible to test number two
they're not taught nutrition in school
they get like 12 to 24 hours of
nutrition training in the entire medical
school and the other really interesting
thing is a lot of the research on
magnesium is mixed as far as what it can
do for the heart a lot a lot of the
studies are done with a type of
magnesium that you only absorb 3 to 4%
of the Magnesium they're using magnesium
oxide so if you're taking like I don't
know 400 migr and you're only absorbing
3 to 4% are you really going to see any
results chances are no versus another
type of magnesium is magnesium glycinate
where you absorb 80% and that's going to
reduce greatly your chance of getting a
kidney stone now I personally had a
kidney stone it was so severe I told my
wife finally understand the pain of what
you went through giving birth she
strongly objected to that she said you
have no idea what it's like to be
pregnant I agreed and I was magnesium
deficient at that time I wish I would
have known about magnesium because that
is the ultimate antidote now what about
the calcium building up in your arteries
right have you ever heard of the
coronary artery calcification test it's
a good test to do to be able to see how
much calcium you have in your arteries
It's relatively inexpensive
and it's a great predictor of mortality
now in other videos I talk about another
vitamin involved with keeping calcium
out of the arteries and that would be
vitamin K2 vitamin K2 is dependent on
magnesium to work now I want to shift to
something very interesting about a heart
attack when you someone has a heart
attack and the oxygen that supplies the
heart muscle is diminished or cut off
that's called aeia you then get a
precipitation of calcium crystals now
when you think precipitation you
probably think it's raining from the
clouds right well just think about
calcium crystals coming out of something
that are going right into the heart
muscle itself these crystals which can
be seen here gather within the
mitochondria the mitochondria generates
energy by using oxygen these crystals
cause irreversible damage to the heart
tissue itself here we see large calcium
crystals visible by the naked eye grown
in a Petri dish these crystals have the
same general shape as the ones that can
be seen microscopically within the tiny
structures of the mitochondria of
patients who suffered a heart attack
when the oxygen supply to the heart
muscle was diminished or cut off the
next image shows a different outcome for
patients who received magnesium prior or
during a heart attack administration of
magnesium prior to a heart attack or
even during a heart attack would prevent
and protect the heart muscle from
forming destructive internal crystals
wow that's fascinating I don't know if
you've heard about this research that
shows that when women take too much
calcium especially if they're menopausal
this also puts them at risk for heart
attacks now you know why because there's
not enough magnesium to help regulate
all this calcium that comes in the body
I would be very cautious about taking
too much calcium I would actually
recommend trying to get your calcium
from food now I talked before about
magnesium relaxing muscles and calcium
causing contraction not just the
arteries not just the heart muscle
itself but in any muscle at all
including leg cramps now I used to have
leg cramps and foot cramps in the early
morning and I always wondered why
magnesium is on a circadian rhythm in
other words the lowest magnesium occurs
in the early morning so if you're going
into this problem with a subclinical
magnesium deficiency so you're low
you're going to start expressing some of
the Magnesium symptoms probably the most
important function of magnesium is in
what it does to energy in other words
when you eat food it gets digested it
goes into the cells it goes into a
specialized cell called the mitochondria
and our mitochondria actually burn off
that energy until the last step of this
whole chain involves a motor which is
converting the inactive energy to the
active energy this is why when people
are deficient in magnesium they get
tired especially if they're exercising
if you're deficient magnesium another
problem that you'll have is migraine
headaches and just as a side note with
migraines in order to get rid of some
people's migraine headaches you have to
take more than even 400 milligrams then
we get to another very important piece
of this puzzle and that is vitamin D3 if
you don't have magnesium vitamin D
cannot work let's say for example you're
taking a lot of vitamin D without
magnesium guess what you're not going to
see the results so just make sure if you
you take vitamin D also take magnesium
so they both work together I do want to
mention how we become deficient in
magnesium there's a couple things 48 to
57% of the population consumes less than
the RDA if you were to get your
magnesium from bananas you'd have to
have 11 cups per day almonds are a good
source of magnesium like 5 ounces would
give you enough but the problem is it
has oxalates which create another
problem then we have spinach is a good
source of magnesium you only need a one
and 1/2 cups but of course spinach also
has oxalates dark chocolate 6 oz would
give you enough magnesium but of course
dark chocolate also has oxalates and
then avocados you need seven cups right
that's that's quite a few fish you need
15 o beef you'd have to eat 4 lb kale
four cups but pumpkin seeds 5.6 Oz and
sunflower seeds 4.5 oz on the flip side
there are things that can deplete your
magnesium alcohol that'll deplete it
refined sugar starches also certain
genetic can create a problem with your
ability to absorb magnesium stress if
you don't have enough stomach acid
certain drugs antibiotics if you're
doing whole grains right out of all
these things the ultrapress foods okay
highly refined Foods basically have
virtually no nutrition at all especially
not magnesium and so if we're digesting
all these alra processed foods the
demand for magnesium goes way up I mean
even little toddlers like two and under
consume 45% of their calories as Ultra
processed food teenagers consume
67% of all of their calories alter
processed foods adults consume 57% of
their calories as alter processed food
calories so you can imagine how
deficient in magnesium as a population
we are and like I mentioned before one
of the reasons why the doctors are not
all over this is because in the
literature in the research there's a lot
of mixed reviews with magnesium well if
you really look deeper they're using
magnesium oxide in a lot of these
studies which you're only going to
absorb a tiny bit and you're not going
to really see the results like you
really should now at this point I think
it's really important to know the
different types of magnesium and what
they do and for that information you
should watch this video right here
