I have something very interesting to
share with you regarding Tremors I found
something that's quite fascinating a lot
of times tremors are misdiagnosed with
Parkinson's when you don't necessarily
have to have Parkinson's to have Tremors
there's a type of tremor called
essential tremor which is more
Progressive into a bigger problem over
time and that's aggravated when you move
versus a resting Tremor which you're
you're resting and you're you're having
this Tremor going on and I found the
author of this patent was a neurologist
so obviously they knew something about
Tremors and so I studied it and I found
something fascinating I want to share
with you if you take high doses of
vitamin B2 and high doses of co-enzyme
Q10 apparently you can improve this
symptom greatly but in this document I
could not find the mechanism of why that
would help someone so that was just the
start of my research in this area and I
did a whole Deep dive into it and I
found something even more interesting I
found the mechanism of why these two
nutrients would work and what amounts
you would need to take to create a
positive effect there's a high
correlation between mitochondrial
diseases okay mitochondria is the energy
factor of the body and movement
disorders you see your nervous system
requires a tremendous amount of energy
so it requires very healthy mitochondria
and when someone has
neurodegenerative diseases or
pathologies or anything related to that
they're usually going to have a
dysfunction in the mitochondria and so
the question is what does vitamin B2 and
co-enzyme Q10 have to do with the
mitochondria well a lot the mitochondria
is all about turning food into energy
ATP ATP is like a battery in the process
of breaking down food into energy there
is a compound like a carrier thing on
the assembly line that extracts energy
out of food it extracts electrons it
helps carry electrons through this
assembly line and so both co-enzyme Q10
and B2 are essential for the carrier of
electrons the name of the carrier of
this is called fad what's interesting
about fad is like there's not a lot of
people talking about
fad but there are a lot of people
talking about NAD you can even get that
as a supplement and that helps the
mitochondria work better it's good for
anti-aging it's good for fixing the
mitochondr it's good for giving you
energy it's good for a lot of things and
people take NAD all the time and the
precursor for that is vitamin B3 but
this fad needs vitamin B2 and then if
you look deeper into What vitamin B2
really does other than help the
mitochondria work better it has
everything to do with supporting fatty
acids the membrane around the nervous
system called the melin sheath and when
people are grossly deficient in B2 they
have all sorts of neurod degeneration
problems they have
neuropathologies they have swelling in
the nervous system they start losing the
milein sheath around the nervous system
another condition is called Ms they can
have exaggerated reflexes and they can
also have dementia now if you've ever
heard of a B2 deficiency and like what
it creates uh a lot of times people
might associate like taking B2 for
migraine headaches and stuff like that
but anything neurological would be
another reason to take it this B2 acts
as a pre cursor to help protect the
mitochondria that is why vitamin B2 is
necessary to help correct Tremors now
what about co-enzyme Q10 well co-enzyme
Q10 does the same thing it helps to
transport these electrons helps you
build the battery it helps more energy
in the mitochondria but when someone
actually takes something like statins
which is something that blocks
cholesterol they're going to be
deficient in co-enzyme Q10 and they're
going to have all sorts of neurologic
IAL and muscular symptoms because of it
so if someone is on a Statin boy they
better take CO's mq10 because if they
don't they're going to have a lot of
side effects but what I did is I did a
deep dive into all the side effects from
Statin and take a while guess what other
symptom I found from taking satins
Tremors this is what I want you to try
and then after you try this go ahead and
comment down below and tell me how it
worked out you're going to take high
amounts of vitamin B2 I would recommend
you take about 800 milligram per day
split it up into two portions 400 in the
morning 400 before you go to sleep what
about co-enzyme Q10 I recommend taking
higher amounts of that as well you want
1,000 milligrams per day maybe take 500
in the morning 500 in the afternoon so
go ahead and try that and comment down
below and we also want to address the
actual diet that may have set you up for
deficiency in the first place and to
know exactly what to eat to fortify your
body with all the right nutrients I put
that video right here check it out
