hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about how much protein is too much
protein at a ketogenic diet okay now
it's kind of a difficult question
because you have so many variables you
have the person's age for example if
they're 21 or 18 they're going to need
more protein than someone like me that's
30 years old right and then you have
digestion the ability to digest the
protein the acid in the stomach if they
don't have enough acid then they're not
going to listen up not going to be a
good situation or let's say they're
under massive stress they're going to
eat a little bit more protein or if
their metabolism is low if they're
hypothyroidism or some other issue well
then they can't consume that much
protein because it's going to overload
the liver and then it's rector sizing
they need a little bit more okay so I
have a rule of thumb a formula you can
use okay and this is kind of like the
top in like you don't want to go more
than this because too much protein will
convert to insulin and stop your ketosis
too much insulin come too much protein
can also mess up your liver and the
kidneys it because it's just it's just
too much for its process so here it is
do not consume greater than 0.8 grams
times your body weight okay let's so I'm
6 foot 2 away 195 pounds right if we
take that times 0.08 that equals 156
grams per day if we divided by 3 like 3
meals that comes out to 52 grams of
protein per meal I don't want to exceed
that ok so what does it look like well
if you ate 8 ounces of chicken that's 62
grams so it's a little bit more 8 ounces
of steak is 52 grams so that would equal
exactly what I calculated per meal and
then 8 ounces of fish is 45 grams and I
do notice that I can actually eat a
little bit more fish and not feel as
bloated so this is something that I
probably would not want to exceed
because for example my body runs really
good at about 5 ounces of protein so I'm
going to cut this back a little bit
maybe I'll do 6 ounces of fish probably
5 ounces of chicken or 5 ounces of steak
I do really good on that so the best way
is to
you know you can use the formula but
just see how you feel and see how you do
let's see if here is your energy hi
sometimes if you're your diet is too low
in protein you're going to be fatigued
so you won't want to monitor at how you
feel to get that sweet spot but everyone
is different all right
these are just guidelines so tell me
what you think put your comments below
press it forget it forget it I'm done
press the subscribe button and I will
keep you updated on the future events
