let's talk about the best way to treat
lower abdominal cramping pain okay well
I think you'd want to go to an expert
right someone who's qualified that
really knows their stuff and that would
be a GI doctor you'll probably get
several uh prescriptions one being an
anti-spasmodic medication you might get
some painkillers antacids maybe they'll
send you to the drugstore to get
Pepto-Bismol or gas X well if that
doesn't work you can always be sent to a
psychiatrist to get cognitive behavioral
therapy right I mean to me it's
mind-blowing that a GI doctor
would not really emphasize your diet I
mean if I had to go back to school I
think I would want to be a GI doc
because it would be so easy and I would
be doing things so differently yet I
think I would get amazing results
instead of focusing on all these complex
diagnoses which are really descriptions
of symptoms I would focus primarily on
the diet because the digestive system is
really the machine to assimilate food
and when we talk about lower abdominal
cramping pain
I will bet you anything it's related to
what the person is eating even if they
have a deficiency of bile hydrochloric
acid from the bacteria enzymes
somewhere along the line those problems
originated from poor diet but typically
when you're getting cramps and pain in
the lower part of the GI tract
there's something to do with
malabsorption it could be any number of
things that interfere with your
digestion it could be small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth it could be
irritable bowel syndrome it could be
diverticulitis
diverticulosis but primarily you're
getting bloating maybe diarrhea loose
stools if we have a malabsorption
problem we have a problem with the
little colon cells there's a couple
different kinds there's the intro site
there's the colonosite and these cells
do a lot of work helping to absorb food
okay they have these little hairs that
project from them that are filled with
enzymes to help you digest and so they
break stuff down and then they absorb
amino acids glucose fatty acids vitamins
electrolytes water Etc and when they're
healthy they can do their job when
they're not healthy
they don't have the enzymes to break
things down so some of this food gets
passed along the fructose especially
gets passed along if you have any type
of fruit you know 50 of table sugar is
fructose so that fructose ends up in the
large intestine and boy do your microbes
love that and they just go after that
and they create all sorts of problems
like with gas and things like that then
you have undigested fats that end up in
the colon that never get absorbed
because of some reason that could be a
lack of bile or it could just be that
your colon is not taking in these fats
anymore so it ends up in the stool so
the stool May float okay or you might
have this oily stool that leaves these
little skid marks on the toilet so this
means the fat that should be absorbed
and the fat soluble vitamins that should
be absorbed have not been absorbed let's
take vitamin A if you don't have vitamin
A you start getting these little brown
flaky dry things on your skin that's
called hyper keratosis not that you
would ever need to know that name but if
you could memorize that you'll sound
really smart at a party or if you're
deficient in vitamin K1 you can get
these little black and blue spots on
your skin okay it's called ecchymosis or
you can get a vitamin D deficiency okay
and you're going to get bone pain
primarily in your lower back your lower
back is going to be achy stiff it could
be other places too but normally you're
going to feel it in the lower back first
now just as a side note like vitamin K2
is another vitamin that helps keep
calcium out of the joints it helps keep
calcium out of your arteries very
important E coli believe it or not
that's actually a normal microbe in your
gut that helps you okay it does turn
pathogenic if the environment changes
but when it's friendly it actually makes
B vitamins B1 B2 B6 B12 it even helps
you break down lactose milk sugar so
some of these microbes can be friendly
they can help you and then they can flip
and become very unfriendly if the
environment is not right like taking
antibiotics unfortunately a great
majority of the antibiotics are given to
animals and so that creates a problem
with E coli because you're going to
throw up this whole balance and now
they're going to carry more unfriendly E
coli but the more inflammation or
problems you have in the gut the more
sensitive you're going to be to gluten
the more problems you're going to have
with milk especially lactose fructose
from fruit the more problems you're
going to have with grains the more
problems you're going to have with
legumes and beans and even nuts and
seeds you just want to avoid all those
instead a really good thing for you to
do okay you can make a stew and you can
actually put bones in them actually cut
the bones in half or buy them cut in
half so you get all the bone marrow and
you can make your own bone broth stew so
you can put meat in there you can put a
whole chicken in there you can put fish
in there we want to cook this to break
down the collagen it's really good for
inflammation in the gut and also if you
put vegetables in there like cabbage and
carrots and other things they're going
to cook down enough where they're not
going to bother you at all but here's
the thing when you want to heal the gut
you want to actually do a little more
fat you don't want to do lean protein
you want to do kind of a fatty protein
not a lot but just sufficient amounts
and that fat shouldn't be from coconut
or other types of plants like corn oil
or soil oil or things like that your fat
should be saturated animal fat it's
going to help your colon heal so when
you put the chicken in there make sure
the Skin's in there when you put either
lamb or some type of meat make sure you
put fatty Cuts now another thing you can
have is if you do a kefir if you could
find a lactose-free kefir so that way
you won't have any sensitivities and if
you could actually find a lactose free
goats kefir that would be the best and
do the whole milk and if it's organic
that would be even better right that
would actually help you another thing in
small amounts to help fortify those
little colon cells would be to consume
some Probiotic foods there's a good
amount of bacteria in raw cheese
unfortunately in America most of it is
pasteurized but in Europe you have the
raw cheeses you might be able to find
raw milk cheese in the United States but
the raw milk cheese gives you a lot of
good probiotics and if you can get that
from like a ghost cheese or a sheep
cheese that would be way better than a
cow milk cheese another fact that can be
beneficial for the gut would be ghee not
a lot just have a little bit a diet
you'll find that it can actually help
you it's loaded with nutrition and of
course fermented vegetables now because
they're fermented they're going to have
a lot less anti-nutrition they're going
to be easier to digest but test the
waters just have a little bit and see
how you do most people do quite well
instead of doing a big salad or a lot of
vegetables the fermented vegetables just
a little bit would be awesome or cook
your vegetables and put in the stew
steam them you'll find that you'll be
able to digest them a little bit better
but out of all the vegetables that a
person can consume with digestive
problems cabbage is at the top of the
list there's something about cabbage
that seems to be very therapeutic to the
gut it could be because of the
sulforaphane which actually kills off
Ace pylori or there's certain amount of
nutrients that are good to digest but
even people that have like gastritis or
even irritable bowel syndrome many times
can do cabbage but they can't do other
types of vegetables so we had these
levels of digestive problems we have a
really good digestive system and then we
have a really bad digestive system and
the worse off the digestive system the
more strict you need to do this to the
point where you can't really consume any
vegetables or any fiber and definitely
no fruit and definitely no grains no
beans no legumes you actually have to
have a really good digestive system to
digest all these things but like soups
or stews with collagen can be extremely
beneficial in healing to your gut you
should try it out I think you're going
to be quite surprised how it works now
because we're on the topic of digestion
if you haven't seen a more comprehensive
video and digestion you really need to
check that out and I put that up right
here
