I want to give you a really important
recommendation to take at dinner time to
help you get into the most wonderful
deep restorative sleep now for years
I've suffered with a sleep problem it
pretty much started after basic training
when I was forced to wake up at 4:00
every morning for 3 months and after
that somehow my body was trained I could
not sleep past 4:00 for many years so I
would just go to bed early but I was
still only getting about 6 to 6 and 1/2
hours of sleep for a years
and I would always just cope by napping
and try to get more sleep but it wasn't
until I got eight hours of consistent
day afterday sleep that I discovered for
myself how important this sleep is now
if we dissect your sleep we have several
situations we have people that can't get
to sleep there's people that get up
through the night and have to urinate
very frequently sleep apnea restless leg
syndrome every single one of those
problems I just mentioned can be
resolved by this one remedy and that is
vitamin D usually you cannot fix your
sleep by taking regular amounts of
vitamin D in fact if you look at some of
the studies that don't show that vitamin
D can help your sleep they're just using
very very tiny amounts you know people
are concerned with the Toxic effect of
vitamin D but there's a a way to counter
that very easily also vitamin D can fix
a lot of problems in your gut believe it
or not not to mention all the different
connections with vitamin D in your
immune system vitamin D also works with
magnesium those two are kind of Partners
in their ability to work together and
magnesium is behind all sorts of
problems with cramping heart
palpitations restless leg syndrome
higher levels of cortisol which prevent
your sleep and a lot of people sleep
better when they take magnesium before
you go to sleep but if you have a
restless leg syndrome or cramps and
you're taking magnesium and it's not
working it could be because you need
more vitamin D and then we get into the
powerful effect that vitamin D has with
inflammation it's one of the most
powerful anti-inflammatories and also
when you sleep better your blood sugars
will be better if we take a look at all
the things that can improve your health
we have Diet exercise sleep I think
sleep is at the top of the list you're
basically the circadian rhythms of your
body that's controlled by a little
bundle of nerves deep in your brain in
the hypothalamus there's receptors for
vitamin D in that nerve bundle and this
is why for example when you get jet leg
and it throws off your Rhythm the
antidote is vitamin D an obese person
needs three times as much vitamin D as a
thin person because vitamin D gets
diluted the same thing with the diabetic
the same thing as you age now if you get
your vitamin D tested and you can even
buy these little kits that measure your
vitamin D and I'll put a link down below
of the company that I use I buy the kit
I measure my own vitamin D and when you
get the results if it's below 40 nanog
per Mill you're going to have all sorts
of issues you need levels that are like
70 80 90 or even 100 or even a little
bit more to create a therapeutic benefit
vitamin D is not really a vitamin it's a
hormone and so if you're focused on
taking vitamin D to get this the hormone
to work better realize that the type of
vamin D that they test in your blood is
the inactive version it doesn't really
tell you conclusively if you're getting
the vitamin D in the cells there's a lot
of people who have vitamin D resistance
who need to take a lot more vitamin D to
penetrate that resistance I would
recommend taking at least 30,000 iuse of
vitamin D3 for a period of time to start
to elevate the vitamin D that you need
therapeutically to create an effect on
your sleep I take 50,000 IUS every
single day but this is very important I
drink at least 2 and a half liters of
water every single day to prevent any
type of side effect from this toxicity
which is the calcium issue calcium in
the blood that's really the only side
effect so if you just maybe cut down on
the dairy and you drink more water and
you take all the co-actors so I always
take vitamin D with vitamin K2 very
important that prevents the calcium from
building up in the blood and then I also
take magnesium I take zinc as a co-actor
I take vitamin B6 as a co-actor now a
couple additional things that I'm going
to recommend um if you're trying to
sleep it's best to take that vitamin D
with the co-actors at the last meal of
the day you're going to get more
absorption that way now some people that
take vitamin D before bed it wakes them
up and I really think it's because
they're not taking the co-act
magnesium zinc B6 K2 I would make sure
that the temperature of your room is
slightly cooler that seems to help me I
crack the window open I would also make
sure that about two hours before you go
to sleep you're not exposed to like your
cell phones and bright lights start
dimming down the room with the lights
now since this vitamin D toxicity idea
comes up so often you should probably
get a little more information on that
and I created a video just for you check
it out
