one french fry equals the toxicity of
one cigarette doctors do learn what
dietitians learn but you know that's
very limited what we do learn is most of
it is not true never before in history
to my knowledge had an entire
organization done the deal with the
devil which they did kids born in the
year 2000 were going to live to be 120
and I was like that's not what I'm
seeing I'm seeing a health catastrophe
unfold so today I am invited Dr Kate
Shanahan to talk about an important
topic seed oils so welcome Dr Kate I
really appreciate you being on here
thank you so much Eric because this is
such an important topic and I am so
delighted to be able to speak about this
with you yeah and the reason I wanted to
bring you on is because you're you're
basically the first person to really
bring this kind of mainstream this
really important point on some of the
dangers of seed oils but I just want to
just very quickly give us a little
summary on you graduated in 1994 right
yes from medical school yes medical
school so in school I'm sure they don't
probably give you a lot of information
on nutrition or even food therapy right
am I correct we had a nutrition course
we learn what dietitians learn doctors
do learn what dietitians learn but
that's very limited what we do learn is
most of it is not true I'm sure you've
had people discussing before salt
doesn't cause hypertension fat doesn't
make you fat you know sugar is not the
ideal fuel for our cells so you know
most of what we learn about nutrition is
actually misinformation and so it's
dangerous and so doctors are actually
dangerous when if you're trusting your
doctor's nutrition advice you're going
to end up sick yeah even if they bring
up the topic because I I don't even
remember any doctor that I've ever been
to ask me okay so the first question is
what have you been eating
yeah they'll bring it up you know if
your cholesterol is high which isn't
actually a problem that it's a problem
they've invented like they'll bring it
up under limited circumstances but the
the medical like Doctrine is not to look
for real root causes and so like that's
what really lights a fire under my um
Parts about like getting uh getting the
word out here because if we could get to
the root cause we can fix everything and
I've seen it happen you know hundreds of
times per personally and thousands of
testimonials now as I'm sure you have
since you give similar advice but the
degree of you know how powerful it is
and just how um how much we can prevent
is just so exciting and it's so simple
if you boil it down the way that I do in
my latest book Dark calories you know I
got I got your book and it just is I
love the title of the book Dark calories
because I just pulled me right I'm like
oh what's that all about right so I have
a series of questions I want to ask you
and I want to dissect this topic
starting from how can you possibly take
seed oils which is very unstable what do
they do to preserve it so the oil
actually is
problematic because they initiate the
formation of toxins and that there is no
preservation what's happening is
invisible toxicity is developing in the
body
most of us can't even detect what would
be a signal that these oils are no good
which is called
rancidity um which is different from
oxidation it's um oxid it's not so these
oils are not necessarily are they rancid
or are they
oxidized they are both and it depends on
the time frame you're talking about so
the oils that are bad are all seed oils
that have these unstable fatty acids as
you mentioned but they have also been
refined bleached and
deodorized and all of the stabilizing
factors that were in the seed that makes
the seeds actually even nutritious in
some cases those are Stripped Away as
part of the refining the reason that
there's no rancidity actually is part of
the refining too that's a necessary part
of the refining um and it's a it's
actually the free fat acids that make it
rancid so things like olive oil can also
go rancid right but they take a longer
time because they've got the stabilizing
factors and they've got the better fatty
acids but it's just the problem with
these oils is the lack of any
nutritional value pretty much whatsoever
there's there's very few in nature you
have these seeds that have protective
factors so we're removing all that stuff
and in the industrial process what are
some of the stages that you go through
you mention
like bleaching and things but what do
they actually do to turn the seed into
this oil well the first thing they do is
they create a crude oil using a lot of
heat and pressure that extracts the oil
and this process can be done with what
they call cold pressing once it's
kickstarted you cannot stop it so these
toxins will continue to develop and
multiply and even change like some
toxins that are there at day two after
refining are gone by day
14 and then when you cook with them you
get more toxins when you reheat it you
get more toxins so by the time you've
made the say of french fry which is
cooked you know regular french fry from
a fast food joint continuously heated
for a few days or weeks the average
french fry contains as much as smoking a
cigarette one french fry equals the
toxicity of one
cigarette what oh my gosh that's crazy
so that's how they multiply I mean so
this multiplication problem is real
could we relate this to free radical
exposure or or not is this just a
different type of toxicity it free
radicals are definitely involved they're
involved in the process of creating the
toxins because oxidation and um you know
free radicals are kind of slightly
different but very similar in that they
destroy cellular membranes they destroy
our cellular Health both of them
oxidation and free radicals once if you
have oxidation you're going to get free
radicals if you have free radicals
you're going to get oxidation so when
we're
consuming this seed oil what is it
actually doing to our membranes the
toxins that form in the bottle that form
when we cook with seed oils that form in
our Foods when we cook with that with
seed oils those toxins have the capacity
to damage our cell and it just will not
function because these oxidation
reactions are the very thing that
triggers the inflammatory response
system you see this on your skin right
with a sunburn actually is the simplest
form of uh visible membrane oxidation
damage and it happens worse when you
have a high seed oil diet because a
little bit of toxicity a little bit of
oxidation reaction becomes Unstoppable
on a high seed oil diet because of it
how it affects us there's so many other
consequences that you know I have to
write separate chapters about each of
these it's just
unbelievable but the good news is that
means it's the most powerful lever by
which you can improve your health and
none of this is something that I learned
in medical school you know let me go
without
saying right this is all stuff I had to
figure out because I wanted to be able
to help my patients really truly help
them and I didn't feel like drugs were
doing much what initially got you to
start looking outside the box was there
something that occurred I met a family a
four generation Hawaii family and the
grandmother was actually this was the
great grandmother who had brought in her
great grandson and she was in her 80s
and in still Health her chart was about
five pages thick coming in for you know
tennis shots and stitches and her great
grandson was uh just 10 but he was on
three daily medications had thick bottle
you know bottleneck glasses
braces uh lots of chronic allergies
chronic learning disorder problems the
dominant narrative was we had just spent
the 20th century expanding our longevity
you know at the beginning it was like 40
years by the end it was
you know 77 on average they were
predicting that kids born in the year
2000 were going to live to be 120 and I
was like that's not what I'm seeing I'm
seeing a health catastrophe unfold right
before my eyes I'm a family practice
doctor so that's why I was caring for
all these different generations and I
knew the family intimately and I was
like this is I had just met the
great-grandson and that's that was the
Tipping Point because I'm like this is
wrong and I I've got to get to the
bottom of this and I also had my own
health problems my own health challenges
that had that had kind of just spurred
me to start looking into nutrition as
well and so I felt like I needed to get
to the truth because the narrative was
saturated fat was the problem and so I
was like okay so what is doing this to
us is it just the deprivation of
nutrients like Weston Price talked about
or is there something else going on and
two halves of my life came together
because before I went to medical school
I was a biochemist I um I went to
Cornell be for biochemistry um to get a
PhD in being able to modify bacteria to
digest plastic and as soon as I found
out about like these oils that were
everywhere and I hadn't been paying
attention um I was like this is so
important and I just dove into trying to
figure out the connections and and
really there wasn't any I couldn't just
read something that existed I had to use
the understanding of biochemistry that I
had gained before going to medical
school and then kind of push that into
what I learned about medicine to create
basically a whole new way of thinking
about the root cause of disease and
that's what I've been writing about for
uh like 14 15 years now wow you know on
top of this uh heart healthy seed oil so
thinking oh yeah it's it's fine you know
that's just been ingrained in our minds
how can they claim that the doctors
don't know that the data that supports
that
claim was bought and sold by Proctor and
Gamble who
funded the American Heart Association
the entire
organization there have been doctors who
like individual doctors throughout
history who were willing to you know
take money and say whatever say
cigarettes are healthy you know that
happened repeatedly but never before in
history to my knowledge had an entire
organization done the deal with the
devil which they did the person who
stepped up to basically defend seed oils
is Ansel keys and anel keys had this big
idea that saturated fat clogged Our
arteries but polyunsaturates being
liquid wouldn't I mean really it was
really that simplistic and and frankly
stupid idea that's not how the Body
Works he wasn't a medical doctor but he
went around the world with all this
money that Proctor and Gamble gave him
creating just Reams and reams of of
paperwork that passes for evidence
because nobody reads it like I when I
look at it when I read it myself I was
like I can't believe this stuff is ever
got published it's basically random
musings and rantings there's nothing
systemat IC about it and it contradicts
itself because there's other authors who
disagreed with keys because he was kind
of a jerk and and he was trying to gas
late everybody that was working with him
into going along with his theory but the
evidence wasn't showing his theory was
right wasn't there another book called
The Prudent diet that was pushed at that
time the um American Heart Association
got behind this other doctor who was
promoting his diet book which was full
of seed oils and margarine you know
because he he saw the trend coming right
he was connect they were interconnected
buddies and he was like okay great so
this is the trend so let's jump on this
trend I'm going to write a book that
basically the American Heart Association
um you know supported there was Mutual
interests they supported each other and
it became wildly popular to avoid
saturated fat thanks to that book which
again no evidence
no evidence but it was so promoted and
popular that it radically changed what
Americans ate forever this is going to
go down in history unfortunately I don't
know when there's going to be class
action stud you know like uh uh trans
fats been around for like a hundred
years and they finally say okay now it's
bad after 90 years my goal is just on a
Grassroots level to get people to be
aware of this and start to avoid it and
do the alternative things but what about
the relationship between seed oils and
insulin resistance is there a connection
there this is so important and this is
um what I call my energy model of
insulin resistance because insulin
resistance is nearly ubiquitous in this
country um something close to 99% of the
population was found to be insulin
resistant on a large survey done and uh
done in you know the Year
2006 and it's probably worse but nobody
knows the what the root cause of insulin
resistance is and people are talking
about it being carbohydrates and I would
say that that's not what the science
suggests it boils down to the fact that
your body fat when you've been filling
it up with the poly inss saturates from
seed oils
does not give your mitochondria the fuel
that they need and it can actually hurt
your mitochondria I just want to just
pause there because this is like very
interesting we consume fats we consume
carbs that turn into fats but seed oils
I just you know people assume well
they're just burned up as energy right
just burned up just like any other fuel
right but that's not true that's not
true wow wow so so they get stored
somewhere in the fat cell or something
and they just our bodies can't use it
effectively or they get stored in the
fat cells that's exactly right and they
it because of the amount that the
average person is eating now where 80%
of their fat calories are coming from
seed oils what what percentage 80% of
our fat calories are coming from seed
oils now it's not all poly ins saturates
so doesn't mean our our body fat is that
many poly and saturat but it has way
more right it has uh normally
historically somewhere around 5% maybe
less some people say more but somewhere
around 5% historically um and now people
have something like 20 30
40% we've changed the chemistry of the
largest organ in our body our adapost
fat tissue and it's making us crave
foods that will raise our sugar because
that's an alternative fuel right so just
our cells are like well Fat's not
working for us they don't don't know
from polysaturated whatever but they do
know another fuel is glucose always in
our
bloodstream and that's the key to
understanding this connection between
seed oils and obesity and Seed oils and
insulin resistance and Seed oils and all
metabolic diseases wow right that's the
key you know I'm developing an app to
pick up and scan and be able to identify
seed oils and Fus because it's in
mayonnaise it's in dressings it's in
pretty much all the restaurants you
can't find a restaurant without them
cooking something in seed oil yes so
that's why in the back of Dark calories
I give people a script to like to to say
to at different restaurants and
different settings like I help you
navigate this because it is a mindfield
the entire world wants to shove these
oils down your throat they don't care
it's cheap there's all these excuses
they use high smoke point neutral
nobody's allergic to it like peanut oil
for example and uh you know so there's
it's everywhere and um you have to have
your defenses ready so that's what the
last third of the book Dark calories
does is it gets gives you the defenses
you need to protect your health and your
family's health your children's health
everybody you care about if a person is
trying to figure out what to replace it
with with can you give us some ideas on
what are some safe oils that we could
cook with yeah so um I have my favorite
five but there's I list a delightful
dozen in the book so my favorite five
are olive oil butter coconut oil peanut
oil and sesame oil there's so many
choices and these things are delicious
right it makes your food taste better
because the other thing about these
deodorized oils and being refined is
they have no flavor agents in them and
what they do since they're so slippery
and Wiggly these poly ins saturates that
are flexible breakable molecules they
totally coat your uh taste buds so they
actually kind of can make it harder for
you to taste other things wow I didn't
know that if someone stops consuming
seed oils how long do it take to get it
out of your fat cell or your body is it
is it possible over time it is
absolutely possible and um it takes it
takes a while because we're talking
about you know exchanging pounds of of
molecules right so the estimates are
somewhere around a year and a half a lot
of people do focus on oh my God I don't
want things in these things in my body
and I have to wait a year and a half
that makes people like feel panicky and
you know they want to try like all kinds
of unproven detox methods and and stuff
like that um don't you don't need to
because you are going to be able to help
your mitochondria to improve your energy
and all the good things reverse insulin
resistance starting from day one you
start to improve your mitochondrial
function because the the foods that I
recommend in Dark calories give your
mitochondria energy they help you get
energy and the other thing that they do
is they help support your body's
antioxidant system which is so so
important so that your mitochondria
aren't quite so susceptible to you know
shutting down from burning a little bit
of pofa a little bit of the polyan
cetate fatty acids right and so we
really need to eat a diet that helps our
body create our own antioxidant enzymes
from scratch it's enzymes that we need
which are biological machines made out
of protein and they use vitamins they
use minerals to do their machine work of
you know capturing the free radicals and
literally catching the bad oxygen
molecules they break these free radical
chain reactions they they block the
oxidation but it's enzymes that we need
and they come from protein and a lot of
folks a lot of women especially
menopausal women I found don't get
anywhere near enough protein in their
diet right that's really that's really
important so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to put um I want to put your link
in the description and I highly
recommend everyone read that book
because it's called Dark calories
amazing I you won't be able to put it
down it's just filled with gold
information that wish we would have got
like 30 years ago you know when I
started getting interested in nutrition
so I just appreciate you spending the
time giving us this data and I'll have
to have you back on soon but you so much
I appreciate your expertise thank you
absolutely
