this is called a
jalapeno
bacon cream
cheese love and it's vegan right I yeah
it's vegan I'd like to tell you about
our next recipe our next recipe okay
this is it right here Rob okay we're
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
uh
fat bomb day week at the burgs and we're
doing a lot of fat bomb recipes so that
you can have some healthy fat in your
diet and during meal time so that you're
not sneak sneaking you don't want to
sneak you not you don't want to snack
snack so we did some sweet ones but
maybe you don't want to have like
chocolate kind of candy with your meal
these are Savory Savory that's a great
word especially around the holidays the
neat thing about these is is not only
can they be a little something that you
pop during your own meal but they're
great appetizers too holiday time yeah
so we got bacon cream cheese and
jalapeno pepper and they're totally
vegan right and they're not vegan the
opposite of vegan a vegan Pig okay they
could be a little spicy so I'm
waiting those are really good these are
not spicy they're
not wait they are hot let's try it they
are spicy
I mean this could be a whole meal right
here so it's going to be U something
that you could sustain yourself to the
next meal so we're going to show how to
make these so just stay tuned so easy
all right check it
[Music]
out
[Music]
a
[Music]
