if you find yourself looking like this
by your computer cuz you're sitting
there all day like I used to get from
working on the computer for 13 hours a
day you're going to get a lot of tension
in your neck in your back and you're
going to keep trying to raise your
posture up but then as soon as you
forget about it you come right back down
to this position right here today we're
going to show you how to completely
reverse that to put your head over your
body and keep it there you're about to
learn an
amazing fasal stretch that will take
your posture from slouched to completely
upright when I was in practice for 30
years I didn't learn about fascia fascia
is the thing that gives the shape around
the body and fascia extends Way Beyond
the joints you're about to learn a
routine that I recommend you do every
single night until you commit it to
memory I do these stretches before bed
to be able to take your posture from
down here to all the way up here so go
ahead and save this video and follow
this routine step by step as we take you
through these simple exercises to
transform your fascia let's begin for
this one you're going to need some type
of uh Rod or pole maybe you could take a
broom and unscrew the bottom of the
broom if you don't have something around
the house maybe you can get something
like this like a band where you can hold
this in back of your head now for this
one it's really important that you
maintain a really good posture so when
you start out doing this you might be
very very stiff but try to do the best
you can so we're going to be holding
some type of pull or some elastic band
as far back as you can as you laterally
bend to one side so we're going to start
off going to the right side go to
neutral and go to the left side this is
one of my favorite exercises and I'll
tell you if you're sitting all day or
you have a lot of stiffness it's going
to greatly open up your rib cage your
upper back and you'd be surprised how
much your neck is going to be very loose
when you're done with this again this is
working on the entire fascia that
extends Beyond just the joints in your
shoulders and your neck because all this
fascia connects down also through your
lower back it's very rare that we
actually stretch in this lateral motion
all right for this next one we're going
to be doing rotation now this is going
to really help the upper rib cage your
shoulders as well as your neck of course
you're going to be standing we're going
to take that same pole or that elastic
band and we're going to rotate starting
to the right side and so as you rotate
all the way to the right side you're
going to kind of pause try to go as far
as you can pause and hold that and then
go around to the other side pause and
hold that position we're going to go
back and forth repetitively here's
another motion that we rarely get as we
sit behind a desk all day and that's
rotation usually you're going to find
one side is going to be more restricted
so you're going to work on that until
you have symmetry between the left and
right side all right good you should
already start feeling more relaxed and
you probably notice that your breathing
is more calm as well all right in this
next routine this is one of my favorite
ones because when I first started doing
this I was very very stiff we're going
to extend back as far as we can going
backwards and then back up to neutral
now what you're stretching in this
motion is all of the connective tissue
in the fascia on the front part of the
rib cage underneath your clavicle
through the abdomen so we're stretching
ing all that as we go backwards even
though you might feel it in your back as
well because you're also stretching some
of the fascia that is inside your body
on the front part of your
spine okay now we uh approach the last
exercise in the routine this one I call
the Matrix all right so this is how you
do this make sure your legs are about
shoulder width apart bring your arms out
to the side and you're going to flex to
your left side foot first with your arms
out to the side now as you laterally
Flex all the way down to one side you're
now going to raise your left arm up and
your right arm backwards I don't know if
you've ever saw the movie The Matrix but
this is like avoiding the bullet and
then we're going to twist over on the
right side and laterally flex and do the
same motion bringing your right arm up
and your left arm back and then we're
going to repeat to the opposite side
this might take a little while to get
down but just watch the person doing
this and try try to mimic them as close
as possible so as you're doing this
motion you're going to find that this is
like the ultimate and laterally flexion
rotation and extension with your
shoulders you're taking this fascia and
you are just stretching it out creating
a lot of space in your upper back and
your neck when you're done with this
you're going to sleep like a baby you're
going to feel real good it's a wonderful
exercise if you get stiff and also just
to exercise your fascia do this routine
every day until you actually get it down
as a habit and you remember these
motions then you don't need to watch it
but this is a great routine I do this
every single night it really helps
sleeping and it's really good for
posture and neck pain as well all right
so we're done and I will see you
tomorrow
