I normally don't do a video like this
this is a little different but I had to
say something because there's a
situation going on in North Carolina
that I want to bring to your attention
and it's pretty scary I live in Southern
Virginia right across the border from
North Carolina and I had a neighbor of
mine go down after the floods to help
and he had a company that had
helicopters and they sent him home so
I'm like what isn't FMA down there he
goes no not not where I am so then I had
another neighbor Bill San Pierre he has
a woodworking shop we did a video before
and bill came up to me and he said you
know what's happening in North Carolina
I said no I brought bill on to share
what's going on because this is a
situation I want to bring to everyone's
attention Bill thanks for coming on yeah
you bet so what's going on in North
Carolina well obviously they got hit
with a major disaster um something that
I've never seen in my lifetime I went
down uh about a week and a half after
the storm I put out a little thing on my
Facebook page to see if I could do
something I have an escavator I have a
business that I run here in Floyd but I
knew I could slip away for a few days
and go down and do a little something
when I got there I couldn't believe what
I saw I couldn't believe the devastation
I couldn't believe the homes were that
were demolished by the flood the roads
um the stores everything was just in
shambled
at that time the Army National Guard was
coming in bringing food and and
materials and generators out to people
that they couldn't get to and they were
flying it in there was a lot of people
that you could get to but yet they had
no homes and their homes were washed
away and everything and everyone that I
talked to they didn't know what to do
these people don't like to ask for much
they don't want anything but when your
home is completely destroyed and you
have no flood insurance why would you
have flood insurance when your house is
on the side of a mountain or FEMA was
down there everybody that I talked to
did not see FEMA some people that did
get to go they had to go to the FEMA
office and they did but they were only
offered you know very little money that
wouldn't even do cleanup well what
they're telling me and this isn't things
that I'm saying this is what these
people are telling me if they were to
build they have to carry flood insurance
or FEMA wants their money back well some
of these families were getting quotes on
flood insurance that was $7 800 a month
they can't afford that and it was just
Devastation um no place to haul all the
debris no place to get materials you
couldn't get into the Cory to get gravel
for driveways because the dump trucks
were lined up for a half a mile haul
into all the state roads it was an area
that was not designed for a hurricane
and they got a major major hurricane 20
some odd inches of rain in just a day or
two and it just Unleashed on them and
now they're all in shambles and they
don't know what to do I guess I was
initially under the impression that
their Crews down there it's organized
FEMA is down there the red crosses down
there everything's being handled I mean
I haven't seen much in the news but
that's not really what's happening and I
was trying to be careful on my social
media I wasn't picking sides but when
I'm down there and I'm actually talking
to these people yeah yes FEMA was down
there yes the Red Cross was down there
um but when you're talking thousands and
thousands of peoples without homes their
kids have nothing and when you didn't
just lose your home you lost your
clothing you lost your vehicle you lost
your wallet you lost your keys you lost
your identity you lost everything and
when they go to FEMA and they don't have
these things they don't have a a social
security card they don't even have a
piece of that they can prove that
they're US citizen
so to get everything done to cut through
all the red tape um some of these people
are being offered you know I mean for
instance one one family I've been
working with were offered
$3,000 the it's probably going to cost
them at least
$200,000 plus just to rebuild their
house stood but just to rebuild the
damage to their home another family that
I'm helping did get what they call me
the maximum FEMA check which was
$30,000 so one of the families did
receive
$30,000 but we have to tear their house
down clean up the site which we're doing
for free and most everybody down there
is doing a lot of the work for free
unfortunately the contractors now are
having to start charging something
because they can't do this forever but
$330,000 isn't going to build you a new
home it's not even going to clean up the
home that you have destroyed which is
now a half a mile Downstream and then
the homes that were half a mile Upstream
are now on your property so I'm not
seeing a whole lot of help from the
government nobody has seen the governor
nobody has seen a president nobody has
seen anybody and it's almost like a
third world country I've been working in
Ash County in and around Boon and
Jefferson North Carolina and I'm not
even in the hardest hit areas you know
these these areas were pretty well
devastated but you get down near
Asheville and you know some of these
towns that were basically almost wiped
off the map and when the media comes in
they show the town but they don't go out
on the side roads and they don't go up
into the valleys where these homes are
just completely gone and it's just a
little overwhelming it's hard on all the
people down there working um you're
talking to these people you're you're
you know trying to help them they have
nothing I've just never seen anything
like this in our country I've never seen
anything like this yeah it's the
strangest thing because I I've been
watching other videos people are posting
and apparently some people are getting
acid burns on their body from chemicals
in the rivers and water like there's a
lot of weird going on down there right
now the septic systems that a few of the
homes I was working on you could smell
the septic because it was just
overwhelmed septic tanks were broken um
and are now all Downstream and just
washing up in people's Wells shallow
Wells so some people are having their
their Wells tested so that they can use
them but if you think about it yeah why
wouldn't all that stuff be contaminated
of course it's contaminated there's like
thousands of people that are not being
helped right now probably more in even
close to where you are is that true I
would drive down on some of these roads
and count you know 20 30 homes just
destroyed maybe their porches were just
ripped off but the water got up into
their homes they've had to go in and
completely gut the whole house out and
that's just the area that I'm in this
was a big area this hurricane hit
between Northwest uh North Carolina
Kentucky Tennessee Southern Virginia
some people may have got help maybe they
did but everyone that I've talked to and
have been working with are getting
nothing I was
basically raising money on Mike venmo
when I first got there because we needed
dumpsters which were overpriced by
$1,000 we needed gravel we needed culs
and these people didn't have the money
even for that they couldn't do it so
thankfully we've had so many people
behind us and behind me in our County
here in Floyd County Virginia giving me
Culver giving me whatever I need to go
down there and help these people out
because right it's not our job to do
this you know we shouldn't have to worry
about this but I'm starting to second
guess the insurance on my home here in
Floyd Virginia on top of a
Mountaintop because whatever our system
is it's not
wow there are people helping down there
it's kind of a makeshift Cruise here and
there right it's not necessarily
coordinated it's not coordinated and at
first it was just a free-for-all it was
just you know where can I go to help
somebody get their car out of their
driveway where can I go to help somebody
pull a few trees out of their living
room so that maybe they could start
putting their lives back together and we
were all doing it for free whether it
was me coming out of Floyd Virginia
companies coming out of Pennsylvania
people coming up from Florida another
problem was all these people that didn't
have homes were now trying to stay in
hotel rooms they couldn't because they
were only letting the workers stay there
so all these people thousands of people
that were coming in to help were now in
these hotel rooms or in sleeping in
their pickup trucks or tents out beside
the road it
was I don't know I just um it it's
frustrating for all of us to be down
there and and to be working with nothing
nothing and using our own
funds but then again it's rewarding to
help these families and you can't just
walk away from it me as an individual I
can't even load my excavator on the
trailer and
leave you know for a week you know I
hate to leave them I don't want to leave
them down there and they're being left
yeah I really appreciate what you're
doing you're you're basically going down
there every week you're spending days I
appreciate that how can someone help if
they wanted to help donate or whatever
so I do have a GoFundMe with a GoFundMe
they do take a very small percentage we
have to keep receipts on everything that
we spend the money on and I hope that
when I get done with this GoFundMe and I
build these two and a half homes that
there's money left over that I can give
these people to rebuild their lives
because they they need everything I have
brought five loads of food and water and
clothing and tools also down to North
Carolina which we've gathered here in
Floyd Virginia but they need money now
it's they have all the clothes they have
stuff if they don't have it they can go
to the distribution centers and get it
some distribution centers are
overwhelmed with stuff but they're
sharing with others now you know
Christmas is coming cold weather's
coming and the key now is to get homes
built get these people back on their
feet and the way to do that is with
money I will
definitely support that and don't donate
as well so if anyone else would like to
donate I will put a link down below do
what you can but definitely people are
in need it's uh unfortunate that we're
not getting the help we want from the
government you know what we're just
going to do it as a Grassroots thing and
I'll put that link down below just the
stress alone everything they worked for
everything that they had and they
thought they were they were done working
and they thought they could settle down
and and they completely lost everything
and is all they can do is rely on other
people yeah it's it's really
overwhelming it's emotional it's just
it's just
ridiculous wow okay well I really
appreciate what you're doing uh let's
see if we can all come together and help
and support these people down there
thanks very much and um let's roll in
some footage that uh you gave me and
I'll put that in the rest of the video
I'm here with Chris and Angela I'm here
with Jimmy kayen arene at the house that
I've been doing some work on trying to
get the mud and stuff clean up out back
and this is the home that we're going to
be taken down to rebuild for them
financially we have zero help we've been
denied by Insurance twice we've been
denied by FEMA twice they did get a
little bit of FEMA money but not even
close to what they need to rebuild we're
depending on just the generosity and and
kindness of other folks yeah so we will
be rebuilding this family a new home um
they've been through hell was here
shortly after the storm did what I could
at the time your house was condemned um
the mountain basically came down behind
this house and just went right through
it this is now a flood zone we're going
to take this house down we're going to
build them a new house and we need your
support and these people do not have the
money to rebuild these homes this is a
this is a couple $1,000 hit right here
so help us out on GoFundMe I've got
people behind me that are thinking of
you guys and uh we're going to make this
happen thank you to all the people that
have been helping on this project and
all the other projects around I'm not
the only one down here doing this help
these families down here in Boon North
Carolina and all over uh you know North
Carolina Western North Carolina
Tennessee Kentucky um cuz they're not
getting the help so let's let's let's
give them some support
