hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about why potassium is so important in
you to your body okay the more deficient
you are in potassium the more the
pancreas has to pump out insulin so it
puts a lot more stress on the pancreas
and if you're a diabetic this is not a
good thing so potassium is the nutrient
that is needed the most in the body you
need close to 5,000 milligrams potassium
is a mineral and you need large amounts
of it
it's needed in almost every single cell
for energy because there's a pump in the
cell that generates energy and if you're
deficient in potassium you are going to
be tired potassium is also needed to
make muscle protein it's needed to make
other types of protein as well it's also
used to store glucose as glycogen which
basically is a string of glucose
molecules in a chain but each molecule
of glucose needs potassium and so all
the cells have glycogen except the brain
and the red blood cell okay and that's
why your brain is dependent on how much
sugar is in your blood and if there's
not enough sugar in your blood it will
create all sorts of symptoms like
fatigue and moodiness and mainly kind of
brain fog now junk food depletes
potassium okay it's very heavy on sodium
but very low in potassium
adrenal stress which means high cortisol
will also deplete potassium the
combination of both is not good in some
resistance which is a pre-diabetes and
diabetes will block your ability to
absorb potassium because one of the
functions of insulin is to help absorb
potassium so if you have been some
resistance you're not going to absorb it
so now you're the requirement it's even
higher but by taking potassium getting
it from the diet you can decrease the
need for insulin and help someone that
has diabetes so if your insulin
resistant or you're diabetic and you're
not consuming enough potassium you're
probably not going to overcome the blood
sugar situation okay so what's the
significant symptoms
it means that our bodies require a large
quantity of vegetable okay to be healthy
so if you're a pre-diabetic or a
diabetic and you're consuming maybe one
cup of vegetable per day that's not
gonna cut it
and also if you're taking a supplement
that has 99 milligrams of potassium it's
not gonna even come close you would have
to consume about what 47 pills a day
so because insulin is involved in so
many problems health-wise to be healthy
you must consume minimally 7 cups to 10
cups of vegetables or salad every single
day okay there's just no shortcuts oh so
now you know what to do so go ahead and
do it hey guys a lot of you already have
my book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the 7 principles of fat burning
it has 156 images 378 pages full
glossary I talked about keyed out in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
