hey guys listen we're talking about
something actually I think it's quite
interesting insulin resistant fat cells
and the other videos I've done I've
talked about insulin resistance in just
cells in general but you actually could
be insulin resistant in your fat cells
let me explain so in the muscle if your
insulin resistant which basically means
that the receptors stop absorbing in fun
ok so now we have a situation where
insulin doesn't work anymore but the
body will make more of it so it starts
making a ton of it so an average person
with insulin resistance which by the way
the majority of population has instant
resistance it produces between five to
seven times more insulin than they need
to ok so if we have that in the muscle
the person's not going to absorb glucose
so they can't get their fuel in the
muscle ok so then the body produces more
insulin to drive it in there and again
I'm not talking about a situation where
you're on keto in a minute fascinating
that's going to correct it I'm talking
about everyone before that stage before
they implement those two things now in
the liver we have a problem with glucose
storage we can no longer store glucose
as glycogen ok and we can't release it
so we have a kind of a catch-22 we can't
store it we can't release it so glucose
really is not an option anymore for fuel
and the liver and then we have issues
but in the fat cell this is what happens
the fat cell basically has receptors for
insulin and they get blocked and now the
fat cell stops absorbing fat it's full
okay now that you might say that's a
good thing right now because now we get
deposits of fat in other tissues we get
deposits of the stuff that's in the fat
cell which is triglycerides and other
types of fat it's going to go in the
viscera which is the organs around the
organs in the arteries around the
arteries inside the artery wall in the
liver as a fatty liver in and around the
muscles ok so some people get confused
because they've seen studies where you'd
have a pre-diabetic or someone that is
insulin resistant and they usually have
high levels of triglycerides
the muscle tissue and they might in
their mind think wow so it's really the
the cholesterol and the fat that
someone's eating that's causing the
insulin resistance no no no no the
insulin resistance is causing the fat to
no longer accept these triglycerides and
they're backing up into the other
tissues around the muscle and so this is
late on the a chain it's the effect of
these other things it's not causing it
because if you consume saturated fats or
cholesterol rich foods without the carbs
you don't have a problem with these
issues at all in fact your body will be
forced to start cleaning all this up
taking the fat out of this because
you're running on ketones and that's why
this whole model of running your body on
glucose is not workable for the average
person because you start developing
instant resistance and now we have
problems in the tissues so a natural
healthy thing would be to convert to
keto so we can avoid this and actually
heal instead of resistance all right
thanks for watching
hey thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
