So today we're going to talk about all
the reasons why vitamins won't work the
first thing to talk about is why do we
need vitamins can't we get all of our
vitamins from food many times you're not
going to be able to satisfy that just by
eating certain foods especially vitamin
D magnesium zinc and even vitamin B3
which is called niin and with all that
chemistry going on your body needs
roughly about 180 nutrients to allow
that biochemistry to work and it's
actually very difficult to determine if
someone's deficient in a nutrient by
just checking the blood because a lot of
these nutrients are deep in yourselves a
big reason why vitamins might not work
in your body is that you might not have
enough acid in your stomach you can't
absorb certain things like minerals
you're going to have a hard time
breaking down things with B12 because
B12 is usually in meat and that's locked
up with protein and if there's not
enough acid to break down the protein
you don't get absorption of B12 one big
clue to know that you don't have enough
stomach acid is if you have indigestion
heartburn too much bacteria in your
small intestine the problem with
synthetics is they don't get absorbed
like natural ones the next point I want
to bring up is when you take a vitamin
or a mineral as an isolated nutrient
this is very unnatural it's going to
create a problem because in nature you
never see an isolated nutrient if you
take too much vitamin D especially in
higher amounts you'll end up with a
magnesium deficiency it's important to
know that a lot of these nutrients come
in more of a kind of a complex with
other nutrients the other topic I want
to talk about is the form of nutrition
for example folic acid you don't want to
take the synthetic version anytime you
take vitamin B9 you want to take that in
the active form the folate the same
thing that goes with vitamin B12 you
don't want to take the synthetic version
called cyano
camine instead you want to take methyl
camine why because you want to results
you want something to work better the
next point I want to bring up is
thinking you're taking a vitamin like
vitamin A but it's not really it's the
precursor to vitamin A not retinol when
people say just eat a lot of carrots or
spinach you couldn't eat the volume of
that food to get this very important
active version of vitamin A retinol the
way to get retinol is from egg yolks or
cod liver oil not a supplement the same
thing that goes with omega-3 fatty acids
people have this idea that if you eat
walnuts or flax seed you're getting your
omega-3 it's not true because the active
form of Omega-3 is EPA and DHA and you
can get that from like fish oil codiv
oil next point is a lot of vitamins have
fillers with molod dein which is a
starch and they use maltodextrin as a
spray agent to turn things into a powder
problem with maltodextrin is it can
compete for certain nutrients like
vitamin C you also have the problem of
depleting certain nutrients especially
B1 B1 is essential in helping you break
down sugar and refined carbs and so when
you're taking multiexon or sugar or
starch the need for B1 goes way way way
higher next point trying to get results
from a vitamin or a mineral while at the
same time you're eating junk or your
diet sucks don't think that vitamins are
going to work to compensate for a bad
diet and that leads us to the next
problem problem with nutrition if you
are a diabetic or pre-diabetic or have
insulin resistance your ability to
absorb nutrients is going to be a lot
less you want to fix the insulin
resistance first or the Diabetes by
going on a low carb diet and as another
side point to that if you're a smoker if
you drink a lot of alcohol that's going
to kind of nullify the nutrient results
unless you're giving up smoking or
drinking then it's very important to
start taking nutrition realize that the
absorption is going to be a lot less the
next point I want to bring up is when
you read the label on the back of your
multivitamin and the first one says
calcium carbonate you're basically
taking Limestone anything that's listed
as the first ingredient is usually the
majority of what's in that bottle that's
why when you take these multivitamins
and they're so heavy it's like a paper
weight when you take calcium at the same
time as you're taking
magnesium they can cancel each other out
because they both compete for absorption
the next point I want to talk about
about is taking enough of certain
nutrients the one that I'm talking about
mainly is vitamin D the rdas for vitamin
D3 are like 600 IUS it's ridiculous they
did not calculate the information
correctly from 10 research studies when
they came up with this 600 iuse and I
talked to a Pioneer in vitamin D
research and this person said that this
wasn't an air it was an intentional
thing that they did to make it sound
possibly toxic I mean think about it
10,000 international units of vitamin D3
sounds very very scary when in fact it's
only like being out in the sun for 20 to
30 minutes it was found that this
so-called air with vitamin D3 I'm
talking about 600 international units
should have been calculated at
8,895 international units if you
corrected the confusion that they had
had from all of these studies if you're
taking 600 and you don't feel any
difference you know why now this
especially relates to the next point I
want to bring up if you have a health
problem let's say for example you have
some chronic illness or diabetes or
whatever small amounts of any vitamin
are not going to create the change you
need therapeutic doses especially with
vitamin D magnesium and other nutrients
like for example if you had peripheral
neuropathy the bottom of your feet was
numb tingly because of your diabetic and
those nerves are literally dying if you
took tiny amounts of vitamins especially
like vitamin B1 it's not going to create
any difference to fix peripheral
neuropathy from a diabetic situation you
need a special type of B1 that is fat
sble it's called botam and in larger
amounts to create an effect anytime you
trying to create a therapeutic effect
you're going to need larger amounts of
the nutrient and like I said before it's
going to be very difficult to get that
from your diet you're going to have to
use supplements and this also relates to
pottassium if you're looking for
potassium supplement if the milligram
dosage was 99 milligram You' have to
take over 47 of those tablets or
capsules to get just the daily dosage of
your pottassium so again if you're
taking pottassium and you're just taking
one of those a day don't expect any
change I hope I shed some light on why
vitamins might not be working for you
and give you some knowledge on what to
do to get your vitamins to work better
now I have another similar related topic
on mistakes people make with vitamins
and you should check that one out I put
it up right here
