hey guys I'd enter the question related
to is it okay to consume whole wheat
flour versus refined grains is it
healthier can I do it okay well then
let's just talk about this because
there's many different pieces to this
our whole grains healthier than refined
grains absolutely but not by much
first of all grains are seeds okay so
when you go from a seed to making a
flower you have to grind it so flowers
just basically milled seeds and when you
do that you expose it to oxygen when you
expose the inside of the seed to oxygen
you oxidize it and you destroy the
vitamins very quickly within days so
when you're consuming whole wheat the
question is when was that that grain
ground down into flour and then they
made into a bread probably months and
months ago so you're consuming something
that is pretty stale now they have to
put all sorts of things in there to
preserve it like to stop the mold growth
and different chemicals that's on top of
everything else but you're not consuming
bread that's been ground down the day
before
all right that's number one so you don't
have the nutrition number two the
glycemic index which is how fast it
turns into sugar in your blood and
raises the blood sugar from wheat bread
is 75 now think about this
anything over 70 is pretty high on the
scale Wonderbread is 73 whole wheat is
69 it's still pretty high sugar 68 so
whole wheat has a higher glycemic index
than actual sugar and of course the USDA
recommends you should have between 6 to
8 ounces of grains per day I wonder why
that is would probably have some
sponsors there and that's like six to
eight slices of bread a day so not to
mention the gluten in the grains and the
phytic acid in the grains which prevent
the absorption of nutrients so there's a
lot of issues with grains in general so
the next time someone tells you to start
consuming whole grains just remember
this and from
nation thanks for watching hey tell me
what you think about this video go ahead
and comment below and give me your
feedback
