so I want to show you it like a typical
example of a client and why you should
never focus on the weight directly we
want to look at a deeper issue so in
January here's a guy who went from from
January to just December to January he
went from a hundred and ninety-one
pounds to one hundred and eighty eight
pounds so that's only a three three
pound weight loss now a lot of times
people will lose a lot more than that
but this is just a good example of
someone that had a bit of a real
stubborn problem with weight now this
might seem like a failure of loosing
three pounds in a month but take a look
his body fat he went from 64 pounds to
54 pounds that's a loss of seven pounds
of body fat but the question is why Huck
how can you only lose 3 pounds but
actually really seven pounds of fat that
doesn't make sense unless you actually
look at his muscle gain he went from 120
to 127 pounds so that's a increase of
seven pounds of muscle so we're losing
all this fat we're gaining all this lean
body muscle it's kind of like having a
steak that's fatty versus a lean piece
of meat and this person I mean this is a
major health improvement on the inside
because look at his visceral fat which
is fat around the organs which is the
deadly fat around the liver went from a
16 to a 13 okay that looks like a three
a three pound you can tell that I'm not
good in math three pound loss and then
he had fluid he has a fluid from 93 to
95 he actually increased his fluid that
means he's becoming more hydrated bone
went from six point four one to six
point six zero that's an increase to
bone so he actually has has more
solidified bone from the nutrition he's
taking from his diet which is this is
called improving osteoporosis basically
his metabolism went up his body fat went
down so you have to take a holistic view
to look at the entire body because you
can't just focus on weight okay so in
summary there's three things you need to
know number one weight is a symptom
never treat the symptom get to the root
cause okay
number two you have to get healthy first
then lose the weight a healthy body does
it gain weight so put the weight over
here get healthy then the weight will
come off it always does it's a great
strategy it works all the time and
number three take take the quiz find out
your body type and if you're interested
you can even come in my office sometime
and get this evaluation to find out for
yourself or continue to watch the videos
that I send you each week or go to my
blog I've worked on 35,000 people over
25 years and I have a lot of great
successful actions I can share with you
so I want to thank you for watching and
I look forward to meeting you someday
