hey guys listen I wanted to do a little
interview with Maria she's an employee
and I wanted the reason why I wanted to
do this interview is because I wanted to
take an average person that has an
average eating pattern who can call it
average right right I didn't say on
health that's an average ordinary
typical typical eating yeah so Maria
okay so when you were in high school and
before did you ever have a weight
problem
no no would you a 106 okay so you were
thin your friends did have a weight
problem right correct yeah and what did
you eat back then junk food as in a lot
of rice bread she pulled it was the
number one that was the number one yeah
okay so so that went on and you didn't
gain weight after that right no because
I was always like kind of dancing every
day so that kind of balance my weight so
you exercise right and you're like going
along did you have any intention of
changing your diet do you need to know
just because I was always so skinny
exciting really and this is I think what
people think is like em skinny I
exercise I'm healthy I don't need to
lose weight because only that people are
unhealthy yes they had this idea right
have you ever heard of skinny fat no
it's good where are your basically
skinny but you're fat on the inside of
the organs you probably even heard about
that yeah but anyway you're going along
okay bum bum bum bum and then you got
pregnant right okay and what happened I
did only gain pregnancy weight then it
gave birth and then I lost only 10
pounds obviously just because the baby
but then after that I noticed that my
weight just well I didn't really do
exercise right I was still eating the
way I was eating me thinking that you
know it was still okay mmm did so you
didn't gain that much after the
pregnancy you did mmm no I just stayed
like if I was pregnant like right now my
waist like if I was pregnant
oh I did gain weight
eight months pregnant hmm okay so you do
gain weight and now you couldn't lose it
so at that time did that motivate you to
go home we may need to go on a diet
yeah just it took two years so we have
to realize that because at first I was
just like who cares I don't really care
but now that I see so many people doing
it co-workers people that you have
interviewed on like if they can do it I
can do it right but at the time you were
just doing the Jepara the rice the
starch right does your family did they
grow up in that food like today is that
what they served yes but after my dad
had his liver transplant which it was a
year ago my mom changed um eating habits
at her house I don't live with my mom I
live with my husband obviously but they
are also like trying to be good and you
know eat a lot of vegetables drink water
they don't drink at my mom's house
there's no soda no juice
what about your what happened your dad
why are you thinking had a liver
transplant
um just because of all our alcohol that
I used to drink drive it because he got
cancer in his liver or did he like junk
food before that no my dad also wasn't
the type of person that would eat junk
food it was just just that yeah my dad
doesn't make junk food okay so you're
going along and you even actually worked
for me for a while and you did change it
down a little bit correct but you're
still doing some on the side right like
what now like what's in the Chipotle do
you have like there it's rice beans
basically what I weed at home for the
rice the beans the chicken okay
we didn't how many meals one milla day
you would have just one meal a day
oh yeah cuz that Chipotle will fill you
up so I mean I did have breakfast but it
wasn't a lot um but if I ate like
Chipotle yeah like it would fill me up
okay that's did you have chips with him
yes okay do you ever breakfast - not all
the time and what would you eat for
breakfast um a bagel which is still
consider as bread you see
and what anything else um coffee Connie
anything else no that's it that was just
my main thing where do you the coffee
from from your office my office was it
did you have people have sweeteners um
no just the half in half okay the
organic have enough okay and then you
you snack at night no just because
having a toddler it's like you don't
really think about that you go home be
with him and you know okay and your
husband would would mention what about
like you work for dr. Berg at the time
yeah till this day he actually still
mentions his like you work for a
weight-loss doctor like why don't you
you know hmm try to get motivated and
you know do the keto diet you know and
so so I just want to know like what is
in your what was going through your head
like as far as why could you just like
jump in and the start and doing it what
what kind of came up is a barrier just
because sometimes I just feel like I
can't do it and I love to you what I'd
like to eat and I'm this like oh people
love me the way I am the cool kids like
I don't care okay got it
yeah even though your husband is like
hinting hinting right but in my head I'm
just like yeah
what about so did you have physical
cravings sometimes chips like sausages
yeah okay that was just my main thing
chicks talk science alright so and then
your husband also well I said I told you
I said I've noticed you have a tattoo
right and it's this time to write the
tattoo is her our last name and I'm like
were you ever gonna get married like to
this happened two years ago yet told me
this yeah I'm like um it's pretty bad
when you have a tattoo of like an old
boyfriend and you're like or like if I
had an old girlfriend or something like
that and I got another girlfriend
how am I gonna get that off right so you
probably didn't think through that no oh
I was younger so it's like you don't
really think about those things till
you're going through it I think this is
what we have whiteout you can just wait
it out that's what I was thinking we
just cross it out I'm gonna put an arrow
new husband or I think a better a
solution for you is to find a husband
with the last name last name
no dr. van Dijk just can't have it just
go back to the dating scene you know
how'd you the speed dating whatever you
did before just find another actually
I've been with my husband since I was in
high school so I doubted that's gonna
okay so might be a problem right scratch
that
okay so you're just gonna have to cope
with this but good thing your hair is
covering up the last yeah just keep long
hair don't cut it off yeah okay so now
recently you you finally finally finally
decided to bite the bullet and change
your ways right which is good so it's
only been like five years and so what
did what change your mind honestly yeah
my co-workers coworkers okay good now
I'm gonna just tell you about the
coworkers because you would think like
oh all the people that work for dr. Berg
have the perfect diet you know like I
can't force them I can't like threaten
them you're gonna I'm gonna fire you if
you don't change your ways even though I
had you sign a contract and you're gonna
better when I hired you but you didn't
sign that but what happened it was funny
because the two co-workers they work
with with me office manager and Sandra
who is over the accounting well their
mom works as she cleans her house and so
what happened is Yolanda the mother
changed the diet like that you just told
what to do changed it loss of this
weight and then the two daughters like
mom what are you doing okay finally
after what huh Roxanne has been working
like 20 years yeah and so now she
finally went on it she started doing it
and then her sister did it so they're
doing a cauliflower pizza the whole
thing the cookies Iquitos and then you
decided you didn't want to be the admin
out or I roll out you're like okay
that's so that's what inspired you other
people all right so then you you started
it right and tell me what happened
hungry Wells before wow did you see she
would be yes right just because I you
think about it you don't really think
about
then I you can do it for sure right and
so you eat you cut out the carbs and
your hunger went away all right so
here's the thing that I think people
don't realize is they think it's gonna
be a struggle
because if you change your diet but you
keep the carbs too high
you never develop new cellular machinery
to burn fat so you're burning sugar
while you're trying to do this with
sugar oh my gosh you're gonna crash and
burn you're gonna basically be so hungry
and craving why you're trying to lose
weight and it's just gonna be miserable
so let me just tell you what you did you
actually cut the carbs down the body
started to make new enzymes to tap in
the fat now you're able to tap in your
fat a lot of people to keep the carbs
too high they're not able to tap into
their fat reserve so that's very
frustrating right because with you
everything changed after you got
pregnant
BAM yeah I mean here you're like 109
before and now what well what was your
peak weight 160 Wow
all right so anyway there's always a
change that happens right before the
change so it's the pregnancy and by the
way if I were you and this is just an
aside note just don't tell anyone just
between you me and four walls
um and then start taking a Sikh out why
because that helps the ovary that
supports the ovary
do you ever takes a cup so you might
want to think about it because that will
actually help you support the main gland
that trigger this whole thing in the
first place okay so when you have the
next child in the next child and the
next one's after that you lose the
weight before the next one because it
sounds really messed up yeah cuz you're
kind of getting older right now hold on
you know I'm only 23
now that's you're gonna be old okay so
so basically you did it and you're like
wow I'm not hungry
and you just jumped to one meal a day
that true yeah actually
it's only been three days
okay and how many meals a day only one I
am did you watch that video that I had
on kita serious kita I've watched many
of your videos just how to apply them
right just yeah
well after a while eventually things
will turn around but okay so you did one
meal a day which isn't quite incredible
and then you're not hungry and you're
like wow this is interesting have you
lost weight have you measured weighed
yourself I don't think I have just
because it still there's not a lot to do
do you feel like your clothes are looser
yet yes okay so so anyway yeah you're
going to lose weight on this this path
okay so you're basically doing it and
you're gonna try to go all the way until
tomorrow or something yeah okay and then
so are you surprised that it's not as
hard as you thought yes just because I
just feel like like if I ate during
lunch and I really didn't I was
surprised myself okay so now your
weakness is rice no it's multi chips to
be honest chips chips
okay do you like the saltiness mhm
okay so you better start eating salty
foods socially for doing one meal a day
because you need to look you need that
salt cuz you're gonna dump a lot of
water and if you don't have the salt
then you could like crave more salt
right great you feel weak but do you
feel any different with your physical
like do you feel tired or anything like
that or do you feel my energy or what no
I'm just really excited
oh good sound effects Aikido excitement
yeah good so I think that's gonna just
help build you up you have build up
through successes but I just wanted to
get your taking your viewpoint of the
person who has kind of a typical it's
called a standard American diet called
sad and the average person's is doing
that I think they just had I think what
you're saying is that you needed a
motivation someone to motivate you're
just to kind of trigger it because I
don't know it's like for me I have this
completely different viewpoint over here
I
like people hardcore keto people
intermittent fasting and then so I'm
like I'm just trying to change my and
see where you're coming from but uh
anyway thanks for the interview I think
now I understand a lot better yeah okay
thank you thank you hey so if you
haven't done so please press subscribe
now that way you can be aware of all the
new content that I'm putting out on a
regular basis
