I'd like to discuss the absolute worst
ice cream you can eat and the best ice
cream that you can eat and yes there are
certain ice creams that are healthy and
I'm going to share a great recipe with
you at the end of this video I think I
would be an expert in ice cream since I
used to eat a lot of ice cream I
remember for one year I ate one pint of
Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream every single
night to be able to sleep because I had
insomnia really bad and I notice when I
consume Ben and& Jerry's put me to sleep
little did I know that was called a
sugar coma so let's start out with the
worst taste scenario type ice cream Ben
and Jerry's so if you look at the
ingredients for dent Ben and& Jerry's it
has cream it has liquid sugar skin milk
more sugar brown sugar soybean oil and
of course don't forget the tapioca flour
which by the way they use for a filler
and it's not even sweet now what's
interesting about bending Jerry's ice
cream is that per serving size there's
four 49 G of carbohydrate so 49 * 3 =
147 g of carbohydrate and so some of
that starch turns into sugar so what
we're really dealing with is about 35
and A4 teaspoons of sugar in the Ben
and& Jerry's pint of ice cream so take a
look at how much sugar that's in there
all right let's come up the list to
Briar when serving size is 21 G of carbs
18 g of sugar but there's four serving
sizes so if you multiply 21 * 4 we get
84 G of carbohydrate but with this
product we're not just dealing with
regular sugar we're dealing with high
fructose corn syrup this is actually way
worse than cane sugar and on top of that
they're adding seed oils it's deadly
this is why if you're doing high fat you
must also do low carb you don't ever
want to do high carb and high fat
together unfortunately ice cream is
usually that scenario the next type of
ice cream we're going to talk about is
Brier's vanilla okay just plain vanilla
and it's very interesting because they
only have like like four ingredients
milk cream sugar a certain type of gum
kind of like a thickener and then
natural flavorings okay that's it so
that's obviously a major step up okay
but they don't necessarily tell you if
it's organic or grass-fed whatever then
they have another version of Briar
called carbsmart okay this is apparently
their loow carb version and then they
ruined it with mtol syrup it's a type of
sweetener that's supposed to not raise
your blood sugars that much just because
something that says it's carb smart or
it's low carb or it's keto friendly
doesn't necessarily mean it's truly
friendly to your blood sugars plus it
creates a lot of gastrointestinal
problems and of course they also add the
soluble corn fiber that people are
saying are really good for you but
there's no safety studies on them and
then they have something called sucrose
which is a chlorine based sugar and it's
been known to create some issues with
your microbiome so I would definitely
stay away from that one but if I had the
choice between the regular vanilla
briers with the five ingredients in this
one I'd probably go with the regular one
I just would not consume very much now
let's talk about hagas okay this is
another one that has like five different
ingredients it has cream skin milk egg
yolk cane sugar it has natural flavoring
the amount of cane sugar is 23 g so the
serving size is 2.5 which puts it only
at 14 tpoon of sugar instead of 34 tpoon
of sugar hogas has half the sugars that
Ben and& Jerry's has now let's get into
the so-called keto friendly types of ice
cream so the first one I'm going to show
you is this right here it's just keto I
think it's a keto brand it says it's
keto friendly it only has three net
carbs and the serving size is three
there's a total of 16 carbs but now
let's just look at the ingredients we
have cream water egg yolk arrol
strawberries and then of course they
have the sble corn fiber as well and the
thing about this one it has 10 g of
sugar alcohol for one3 of this so if you
were to consume this whole thing that's
30 g of sugar alcohol that's going to
create digestive issues I'm glad that
they don't add other types of sugar in
here so I think they ruined it with all
these synthetic fibers honestly but
again if we're comparing it to Ben and
Jerry's it's a step up I just have to
tell you a quick story I decided at one
time several years ago to create makito
Friendly Ice Cream and I wanted to use
coconut oil as our fat and I used the
best ingredients and we went back and
forth and back and forth to create the
best texture it's a big problem to solve
I remember going to the manufactur ing
company do the first run and I ordered
the wrong coconut oil it was a disaster
finally got it done and we created this
amazing ice cream it was literally was
the best ice cream I've ever had here's
the problem ice cream is Frozen it's
vulnerable to heat all of the air that
kept it fluffy went away and like the
ice cream was like down 1/3 right here
we literally put 20,000 units into the
dumpster so that was my my adventure
into the land of making ice cream all
right now let's talk about Rebel Rebel
has zero gram of sugar per pint so
what's in Rebel Cream
arrol Egg Yolk chory root fiber milk
protein icelet carob gum and monk fruit
now those aren't bad ingredients so this
would be fine to consume now let's get
into this one called simple truth but
this is not even ice cream though this
is frozen dairy dessert and the reason
they have to call it a frozen dairy
dessert is because it doesn't contain at
least 10% of the milk fat look at these
ingredients the first one is inulin
anytime you have anything as the first
ingredient that's like the majority of
the product which is automatically going
to raise red flags to digestive problems
and then they get into allulose which I
do like allulose as a sweetener then
maltatal you want to stay away from that
one that's going to just create bloating
and gut pain then it has arrol then it
has milk protein concentrate coconut oil
garum monk fruit and Stevia this has 28
gram of carbohydrate it has 8 gram of
fiber that's 30% of this is fiber but
check this out the sugar alcohols come
to 13 G time 3 as a serving size equals
39 g of sugar alcohol you do not want to
consume this whole thing in one sitting
because you're going to be on the toilet
okay so as you can see there's different
levels of Badness with ice cream and you
cannot trust uh just something that says
keto friendly carb smart you have to
read the ingredients I mentioned a
couple that were okay but I think the
best thing is to make your own there's
two different versions of this okay you
have the version for the person who
really wants to be low carb and they
want to be truly keto friendly that
recipe would be heavy cream egg yolks
allulose a pinch of sea salt vanilla
flavoring you can also add other things
too like peans or walnuts blend it up
and then you put it in the freezer for
four to 5 hours and you take it out and
you got your ice cream okay so that's
one version there's another version I
want to mention that would be involving
organic cream two egg yolks add the
honey in there a little pinch of sea
salt pure vanilla and either put it in
the ice cream maker or put it in the
blender and then you have more control
of what's in your ingredients and you
can have this on a special occasion so
go ahead and try out the recipes tell me
what you think and I will see you in the
next video
