so let's talk about back pain and
vitamin D did you realize that some of
the most common symptoms of vitamin D
our back pain aches and pains other
places it could be in your muscle could
be in the arms it could be in the knees
or even bone pain okay so these are some
of the symptoms very common symptoms
when you're deficient vitamin D now you
could be deficient from many different
things you're not consuming enough
vitamin E in the diet you're not getting
enough Sun because it's the winter or
let's say your livers bad or your gall
bladders missing you don't have enough
file to absorb this vitamin which is fat
Seibel so you need bile salts to help
absorb it now what's interesting is that
vitamin D acts like a steroid hormone in
the body like cortisol cortisol is a
anti-inflammatory a lot of times you go
to the doctor and they give you a tear
right shot right well that's an
anti-inflammatory well your body
produces naturally cortisone to get rid
of pain but vitamin D also has
properties to get rid of pain as well so
you could be deficient and all you need
to do is take some vitamin D and bone
the pain goes away but you have
receptors for vitamin D in the spinal
cord and the nerve roots and in the disk
so apparently vitamin D it innervates
all these areas where a lot of people
have pain okay so the question is where
do you get to vitamin D in your diet
besides getting the Sun and having that
convert to vitamin D well the fatty of
the fish the more about a Mindy you're
going to get Cod little oil is a really
good source of vitamin D also grass-fed
liver personally I don't like liver but
liver is loaded with vitamin D now if
you're going to take it in a tablet form
always take it with vitamin k2 because
they work together if you take too much
of vitamin D over a long period of time
it could raise your calcium in your
blood and in the soft tissue so we want
the k2 with it which keeps the balance
k2 pulls the calcium out of the soft
tissues and keeps it in the bone where
it should be alright thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called a new body type guide is
an upgrade from my last Edition called
the seven principles of fat burning
it has a hundred fifty six images 378
pages full glossary I talk about keyed
out in a minute fasting the body types
in detail I have a new stressed chapter
I'm going to show you exactly what to
eat and a comprehensive FAQ I put a link
down below check it out
