today we're going to be talking to
Professor Bruce Hollis the Pioneer in
vitamin D research you're going to find
this extremely fascinating let's Dive
Right In so Dr Hollis I I watched one of
your videos and I literally had to put
it on pause because you said something
that blew me away I've never heard this
before in my life and I had to spend the
next eight hours trying to validate what
you said which is absolutely 100% true
and this little piece of information
will explain a lot of I think the
confusions that people observe when they
see negative research on vitamin D and a
lot of other things so that piece of
information was related to um there's
actually two different systems in the
body that deal with vitamin D uh there's
I guess one with bone and skeleton and
then there's another system for
everything else can you kind of just as
simple as possible kind of explain those
two
systems yeah the first system
uh the one that was discovered decades
ago that vitamin D was associated with
skeletal integrity and M maintaining um
blood calcium levels in a strict fashion
and and it's very important and it has
to be it has to be uh maintained all the
time and so that system involves uh
vitamin D and parathyroid hormone um
kidneys and that's basically referred to
as the endocrine function of vitamin D
and that's what everybody always
identified vitamin D with and then as
time went on um molecular biology came
into a focus they started finding um
cells that had the ability to respond to
vitamin D that had nothing to do with
the skeleton immune cells cancer
cells uh uh placental cells uh and list
goes on and on and it turn turns out
that that's the second system and is
called the paracrine and intercrine
system and that is depending on uh how
much vitamin D can get into these cells
and be activated and then carry out
their function I mean just in the human
body give or take there are 20,000
different genes that are controlled um
uh for various functions vitamin D has
the ability to control 10% or 2,000 of
those genes in one fashion or another
and so to to basically brush that aside
as a lot of my colleagues did uh just
saying it's it's an artifact never made
any sense to me so if we take a look at
these two systems when you get your
blood test done in vitamin D you're
looking at a the inactive version of
you're not looking at the type of
vitamin D that's going in the cells and
how does that relate with these two
different systems well here we get it
gets pretty technical so have you have
when people refer to vitamin D mostly
when they refer to vitamin D it's the
form you get when you take a supplement
or when you make it in your skin when
the Sun hits your skin um that's the we
call that the vitamin D or the parent
compound and then that compound goes
into the circulation it doesn't stay
there very long and but it gets turned
into another compound called 25 hydroxy
vitamin D and when they test your blood
right the immediate form
the intermediate form that stays in your
blood for weeks okay okay and that's a
good and a bad thing because it it stays
around for a long time but it's not very
accessible to these tissues that need
it it it's accessible to the kidney that
maintains blood calcium and then finally
uh the uh the that compound is turned
into another compound which is really
one of the most potent hormones known
and that's uh the 125 Di hydroxy vitamin
D and that uh that that's is what drives
all these Gene functions and all these
tissues so so the one when you go to the
doctor and get your blood test you're
looking at not the active form it's an
inactive form that can stay around in
the blood for a c several weeks it's the
yes it's the I'll call it the
reservoir okay it's the reservoir of
vitamin D that's being measured got
it and then it turns turns into the
active form or a certain amount will
turn into the active form but then how
does that relate to these two different
systems well so the in that intermediate
form the reservoir form can turn into
the active form in the kidney that's
highly regulated and that's what m
that's what regulates blood
calcium
okay that intermediate form can also go
into any cell in the body okay and be
turned in to the active form and
function in that given cell whether it
be a cancer cell to stop cancer from
progressing or immune cells uh to make
make them function in the appropriate
fashion and uh also the the problem with
that intermediate form is it's not very
accessible to these cells it can it's
it's it's bound to this protein it keeps
it out that's why it lasts in the blood
so long
so the the parent compound the one that
you take in the supplement turns out
it's really important because that form
can get into any of these cells and be
activated all the way down the chain to
the active
form the problem is that form disappears
within a
day yeah so so it needs to be
replenished every
day to have the full function of the
vitamin present say it's very it's
complicated that's why a lot of
Physicians don't pay attention to this
or scientists as
well so this this this is kind of what I
want to get into this this point that
you just mentioned because you have the
different types and then when people get
their blood tested they're assuming that
there's one system oh I have enough in
the blood so everything's going to be
satisfied but that's not necessarily
true no that's true and because the the
form that's being measured while it's
important okay it's the reservoir more
important
for maintenance of blood calcium and
skeleton but for the other functions the
only way that you can you you can be
sure that you have adequate Amounts is
basically take it every day either
orally or get in the Sun every day and
of course that's really not feasible for
a lot of
reasons so the oral consumption of
vitamin D on a daily or at a minimum on
a weekly basis
uh is is important because that that's
the that's the the Bas the base form and
that form comes and goes very
quickly
wow so this has to do with like halflife
and um breaking down some of it goes
down quick some stays in there so
now in one of your videos you me you
went through a bunch of studies and you
showed people step by step um like
number of studies that were that failed
that showed no response with vitamin D
and you correlated that with h well
that's because they they only let people
take it once a week or once a month
versus there been even been one study on
skeleton where they took it once a year
like a million units once a year and
then they said well this didn't work out
very well and that continues to be cited
in some facts as being harmful it's
idiotic oh my gosh if someone takes a
million um I use a vitamin D just one
time um I think um after after a day it
goes down to half and then the day later
it goes down to a quarter right it just
kind of breaks down and then goes away
or or it just becomes yeah it it'll
boost the intermediate form for a while
but it's a very it's horribly
inefficient uh of way of doing it and it
becomes more so if you do it once a day
it's efficient once a week it's less
efficient once a month even less
efficient so yeah
so wow as far as the the the research on
this
um what about um you know you have all
these most of the researchers out there
they're they kind of look at Cal U
vitamin D just just related to Bone and
calcium they're they're kind of just
almost pretending like this other system
doesn't exist is that true yeah
basically yes I mean first you have to
accept the fact that vitamin D has
functions on calcium and I mean the data
are all over but what what ends up
happening is things are run like the
vital trial yeah where they they give
too little vitamin D they give it to
people who in know in a randomized trial
who who who don't need it you know it's
like uh in the the the Townson
newsletter I mentioned to you when I was
discussing it with the author of that
paper so the gold standard for all drug
trials or randomized control
trials okay where say you have a
cholesterol drug and you want to test if
it truly will depress serum cholesterol
if you take it so the drug company
assembles uh assembles a population of
people and they administer half of those
people a drug and half of those people
get
Placebo and then they they uh analyze
the
and and look at it and of course they
it's in most cases it's it's
successful and this is how drug trials
are run but the drug that you're giving
those people the body has never seen it
they don't have a base level of
it unlike nutrients not just vitamin D
but any nutrient trial okay it's
impossible in this country to do a true
randomized trial because the population
you're dealing with has some some some
people have very little some people have
plenty but when you if you just take
them at random and and and randomize
them and give these people half of them
a a level of vitamin D oftentimes not
even enough and the other half only get
Placebo or and Placebo in this country
means they have to get the standard
daily
dose so they're not even getting
zero and what happens is is that it's a
horribly compromised study so that's
what vital in all these uh happens is
that and the other thing is when you
when you end it and you do your data
analysis wouldn't you think that you
might take the basil level into effect
when you do the analysis of the
data well that's illegal you can't do
that that that violates intent to treat
model okay and it absolutely ensures
that your trial is going to
fail so and I'll give you some examples
and I've worked primarily in pregnancy
we did pregn pregnancy studies and found
out that vitamin D decreased
complications of birth and but the best
trials were actually done overseas and
the best one couple were done in
actually in Iran and where the
population is generally vitamin D
deficient across the board and they had
a fairly large patient population half
of those women got a substantial dose of
vitamin D and half of those people got
nothing which is how you can't run a
trial like that in the US because you'd
be violating standard of care but over
but that's truly how Vitamin D trial
should be run and and and in those
trials we saw tremendous effects on on
decrease in birth complications like
pre-term birth and preclampsia and and
and diabetes and and everything else
fell into the treatment group if you do
the same trial in the US you you you
can't do it where our nutrition is
better people have better vitamin D
levels but when you randomize
them like I said everybody has some and
so it's not like you're given a drug
that has none and when and when you look
at the results it's totally blurred and
it's even you know you could I you can
overcome that to some degree when when
the statisticians would take their the
basil level upon study entry into effect
and then you analyze it like that you
can see effects and that and in fact
that's
why observational studies uh you know
when they have these big groups of
people and they look at vitamin D levels
and outcomes via cancer via pregnancy
and and things and it's based on a
lifestyle
okay and and uniformly those studies and
there's thousands of them would show
really big effects of vitamin D but then
when you went to do these randomized
trials and you had all these
complications and you can't adjust for
the base level all of that disappears
and you get no you get no effect at all
but if you if you submit your paper to
New England Journal or jamama or British
medical journal and you and you analyze
the data
and want to take into account basil
levels that violates the intent to treat
model and it will be rejected outright
wow wow so so the vital study is
definitely um the study that certain
groups are using to to tell people well
see see it doesn't really work yeah we
did the study it's
definitive like I've challenged the
authors of that
study to reanalyze their data taking
Baseline levels into account of their
patient and they won't do it wow
incredible and they didn't they even
call um their the amount of vitamin D
they were giving people a high dose at
2,000
iuse yeah that's
nothing per to put it in perspective I
I'm 73 years old I take 10,000 units of
vitamin D a
day and I have for years and my level
vitamin D levels are between 80 and 90
nanograms per
ML and my the my personal care physician
is is pretty um Progressive she uh she's
all for that not just with me but for
her entire entire clinical uh uh group
of of patients that she follows and so
she wants her patients to have a minimum
level of 60 that's really out there
compared to most you know Family Care
Physicians or Primary Care docs in fact
they'll get a level back from be at the
male clinic or Cleveland Clinic or
whatever and those those levels like
mine which are 80 or 90 will be flagged
as too high right and I get those I get
those emails from people all the
time wow it's just level two let's talk
about the normals for a second because I
think it's a bit of an arbitrary right
there's really no agreed upon range
definitively right there's different
different ideas on it
again if you go back to what's the
agreed upon range it's all based on
skeletal models right right and and and
the skeletal models that's something
that we haven't talked about the ranges
on those two systems are
different you can maintain a skeletal
model on a relatively low amount of you
know say 25 or 30 nanograms or maybe
even lower where you can maintain a
normal skeletal level where the other
system requires much higher levels in
that to function in a normal fashion
incredible what are the ranges for the
other system uh other than the bone in
the skeletal oh I I'm I'm saying if you
want to have cancer prevention or cancer
treatment it's so if you're trying to
prevent cancer that's one thing if you
have active active neoplasia that's a
different ball game that's that's
pharmacology so your levels would be
higher but but for prevention and
optimal functions I me a Minimum level
would be 50 so 50 to 100 and that's well
within the normal physiologic range in
Sun repleted
populations so if you spend a lot of
time and we've looked at this over the
years and people lifeguards or athletes
who are outside in the sun in in the
summer months or people who live in the
tropics who take their levels are
routine the 890 100 nigs that is not an
abnormal level from Human physiology in
fact that's what we all were at one
time this is incredible data so um so
you do have prevention then you have the
the therapeutic dose when someone has a
chronic inflammatory condition
autoimmune or cancer those levels I
would imagine need to be a bit over a
hundred right yeah or even higher I mean
there's a there's a an MS protocol in
Brazil where uh this I can't remember
the Cambria protocol yeah
KRA yeah he he they dose with several
hundred thousand their their levels are
you know 5600 nanograms to for the
suppression of of Ms and it has basis in
fact because vitamin D at those levels
is an immune suppressor so excuse me it
will it will alter the T the t- cells in
the favor of T2 away from T1 T1 are the
ones that cause autoimmune attack and so
vitamin D at H at those levels and and
some of those people show that uh those
vitamin D at those levels are more
effective than the drugs that are
prescribed of course vitamin D is free
essentially and those drugs are
enormously expensive to take every month
with severe side effects right so what
what about cancer you mentioned one of
the videos about prostate
cancer
so you know with prostate cancer um we
did a study more than 10 years ago now
where we looked at I went to at the time
I went into uh the chief of our urology
department at the Medical University of
South Carolina where I was on on faculty
and and another fellow and I went in and
talked to him and uh he it was a friend
of mine and I said to them I said look
we want to do a a a study in your P
group of patients on the patients who
are have active surveillance or watching
weight you know what that is so we you
go in to have your prostate your PSA is
going up they do a biopsy and and your
your your uh prostate cancer is low gr
say leas and six so the doctor says to
you well we prefer to really do nothing
you know we want to watch and wait which
means I'll we'll check back with you in
a year see if it's
worse
okay so we said we want to do a study on
these guys and what we want to do is we
at the time every time we did these
studies you had to propose how much you
were going to give the patient and so if
you go back to this period of time which
is in the 20056 Years some back there we
wanted to give a really modest dose of
4,000 units a day I would have liked to
give more but at the time you have to go
through an Institutional review board
and they have to okay it and so um and
and most of this unfortunately where we
are and stuff most of the prostate
cancer occurs in the African-American
population which are really deficient in
vitamin D so we approached them and we
said we want to do this and we want to
give them 4,000 units of vitamin D at
day um and it was an Interventional
trial it wasn't a randomized trial but
we had historical data on patients that
were in that in that practice and so we
put them on 4,000 units a day and we
monitored their levels and and then at
the end of the year they got to repeat
rectal biopsy for like you get for
prostate cancer and we looked at the the
cell grade and the retention or or the
how it progressed and in in
64% the tumors regressed wow wow and we
submitted this to Course New England
Journal and they wanted nothing to do
with it so we submit it it finally got
published in the journal of clinical
endocr endocrinology and Metabolism
which is a respectable uh endocrine
journal and uh um
it really went nowhere I mean if it
would have been a drug that a drug
company had it would have been worth
billions
yeah so so when when people treat cancer
like that like prostate cancer 4,000 is
nothing I'm saying take 20,000 you know
or more because you got cancer you're
not dealing in normal physiology here
you you're in Pharmacology you know and
and the push back you get if you try to
put these trials well I'll give you an
example of a of a study called the
Sunshine study which is a study on
non-resectable colon
cancer okay run out of Harvard and
several other and and in those studies
they were they were giving vitamin D
prior to giving
chemotherapy and to see if if priming
these people with a level of vitamin D
prior to giving them chemal therapy had
an
effect and so sure enough I mean the
file stud being done but the initial
study that was published a couple of
years ago after the data was looked at
it basically extended the patients lives
by two months if you primed them with
vitamin D and it was only like 8,000
maybe 10,000 units a day you know which
at the time I I said to the primary
investigator on that study I said why
don't we really go for you know like
50,000 no and and the response I got
back is we can't get that through the
IRB
I said these people are D you're giving
them you know really potent
chemotherapeutic drugs and you're
worried about giving them you know
vitamin D yeah right God yeah they're
dying they got they're not GNA survive
you're trying to prolong their life they
you can't even operate on them because
they're too far along and you're worried
they're worried about giving them you
know a substantial and so be that as it
may even that the doses they gave in
conjunction with the chemotherapy
extended their lives by two months and
in cancer chemotherapy that's a big
deal okay drugs are approved on that
basis but it was funny because it was
sent to jam and and it was the initial
data the way it was analyzed by the
School of Public Health at Harvard
showed significance at like
0.0035 and and then jamama comes back
and says well we want you to do it this
way so do it that way and it comes back
like
0.045 or something and no no now we want
you to do it this way so then it comes
back at
0.051 and then they say okay that's good
but you got to say it's it's uh it's not
significant and we'll publish the
article the only thing that shows up in
the news was that vitamin D was not was
not significant in progressing in
treating the
cancer that's completely
false well it's it's not it's if you
look at if you look at your level of
significance like Point difference
between 0.005 and
051 so that's a that's 50 patients in a
thousand versus 51 patients in a I mean
it's just to get the it's just to get
the the term not significant into the
article holy macro so so what you're
saying all the time so what you're
saying is there there is some slight
resistance by these journals and I'm
being very sarcastic it's in the major
medical journals there is huge
resistance to
it there was an article that just came
out in Science magazine that showed that
vitamin D and the mechanism of how
through the microbiome it regulates
colon cancer and that actually got
published it it's h very technical okay
it's very technical but it shows the
mechanism how Vitamin D works at at at
at not at a not at an endocrine level
but this cellular level to regulate
cancer immunity in in in these
patients wow so so um as far as the um
storage of I I was under the assumption
that uh all this vitamin D gets stored
in your fat and then when you need it
the body pulls it out but that's no that
that's not that that's not true either
wow yeah fat soluble vitamin goes into
your fat when you need here and I've
even heard people in the old days saying
well you know what happens when you have
a bariatric surgery and you have a lot
of vitamin D and it pours in the vitamin
D toxic well that was totally
ridiculous I mean it doesn't it just it
you know it might Supply a little bit
but it not I mean maybe enough to to to
uh Supply the enderin portion for a
while but it definitely isn't enough to
supply the the cular portion because one
one of I think you even studied you you
tried to find vitamin D stored and you
couldn't find it or yeah we looked at we
looked at levels in fat so other things
are stored as Esters like fatty acid
esters and fat tissue so we we would
dose we would dose even humans and take
fat samples you know and and look for it
and it there was nothing special about
fat tissue about vitamin D being in
there I mean there was some in there
because it just distributes in tissues
in general but it wasn't anything
against a gradient where you had this
high level of vitamin D and fat tissue
wow you also mentioned the relationship
between vitamin D and um even the
endothelial layer in the inside of your
artery is becoming a bit
leaky yes some you know if you go back
several this wasn't my work but but it
it happened it was done by a group of
biochemists in um in
Utah and what they had uh they I believe
it's called cavernous M foration
syndrome where you have uh these leaky
vessels in your brain uh it's a it's a
metabolic defect and they leak fluid and
these guys were looking for compounds
that would avert or be more therapeutic
so these endothelial vessels wouldn't
weak okay my coffee machine is turning
off here so that's the noise of the bat
de so anyway they they had this system
where they ran thousands of compounds
through this to test for this
leakage and uh and what they found was
they found two compounds one of which
was vitamin D which they were really
disappointed by because uh you know good
old vitamin D with a stabilizer of
endothelial function meaning it stopped
the leakage and it was and the
interesting thing there was the parent
compound vitamin D itself was the most
potent
wow not to other forms but vitamin D
itself so you talk about the ones in
supplements who getting it from the Sun
yeah the one we're getting from the Sun
or in your vitamin supplement was the
most potent at at overcoming this
endothelial function you know one of the
other things that we did in our
pediatric work was in it has to do with
human lactation yeah so you know when I
go back to my graduate school days and I
was you know I was you know not the best
student because I always question my
mentors you know and so we were taught
and I was a I was a nutritional
biochemist by training and in the
training you I they would teach well you
know cuan milk is the perfect food for
the nursing infant except for one thing
they could get rickets if they take it
so you got to give them a supplement I I
thought that makes no sense whatsoever
right why how could that be and so you
know at time goes on and we we you know
we we do research and it goes for
decades and finally we figured out that
to overcome this
problem the mothers were taken too
little vitamin D by the recommendations
that were being made by the different
organizations so once we could measure
the stuff in milk and blood and look at
how much was passed into the milk from
the blood and um and it turned out that
that you a nursing a woman who's
lactating needs to take about 6,000
units a
day to pass enough vitamin D into her
milk to satisfy her infant and then the
infant doesn't need any doesn't need
drops every day she's getting enough
from the mother mother's taking 6,000
units a day and actually that has been
implemented in pediatric practice to
some degree on Progressive pediatricians
who actually pay attention so it's an
option now instead of giving uh instead
of giving uh the nursing infant 400
units drops because mother's vitamin D
is enough because she deficient herself
I I wonder if this postpartum depression
is related to this vitamin D because low
vitamin D it's possible we looked at
some of that but uh in our studies that
we ran in pregnancy but you know it's
it's possible but our numbers we didn't
have enough to really make an assessment
if that's true or not but it's possible
because vitamin D has neural
effects how does um this this idea of
vitamin D resistance on top of all these
other issues we have vitamin D
resistance you have the vitamin D
receptor you have certain microbes like
that are involved in limes disease you
have epin bar virus that that
competitively downgrade receptors on top
of everything else have you looked into
that uh I haven't I mean they're
hereditary they're there are people who
have hereditary resistance because their
receptors are metabolic metabolically
inactive yeah uh you know um it again
it's possible
but to look at those kinds of studies or
to run first of all at this point in
time nobody's getting any money to run
any more vitamin D trials it's over okay
really yeah it's over you can't you
can't even find a student a student who
would go into somebody LA to study
vitamin D metabolism is
committing career
suicide because you're not and this
isn't just in the US it's in Britain too
the vital study and these these articles
like Scientific American had totally
decimated vitamin D
research and trials are expensive to
run uh the government won't fund them
drug companies don't want them they
don't even want them run okay because
they compete with uh with drug that they
have in development such as the the
drugs for prostate cancer you have one
that's free that is that is pretty good
at at suppressing prostate cancer and uh
it doesn't cost anything you think the
pharmaceutical companies want that
knowledge out there it's criminal
totally criminal or or or in vitamin D
in in preventing pre-term birth or
complications there was a drug called
McKenna that was 177 hydroxy
progesterone remember that one isn't
that for cancer that was for cancer no
no this was for prevention of pre-term
birth okay okay it was injectable it was
I don't know what company made it it was
a small biotech company back in
2010 this company was uh was bought out
by a bigger company and it was U uh they
had this one drug 7 17 hydroxy
progesterone which was called McKenna it
was approved as a speedy uh approval by
the FDA there was only one problem it
never
worked it was expensive and it was a
absolute abject failure and two years
ago the FDA pulled made him pull it from
the
market and was it a progesterone or was
it a it was 17 hydroxy progesterone you
can look it up you you can you can look
at the history of it and uh so it was
doing they were proposing a something
that vitamin D actually does which was
appropriate vitamin D levels can reduce
pre- birth but it's free wow there's no
money in it no and it's yeah so yeah um
you also mentioned in in one of your
videos um um it's important to also
realize that vitamin D needs magnesium
as the
co-actor it does yeah it it uh you know
I I reviewed a lot of papers years ago
and I remember reviewing is one that
clearly showed that magnesium status was
a was a a potentiator of improving
metabolism of vitamin D within the
cells meaning it was a simple thing so
people who had better magnesium status
also had higher levels of the
intermediate form of vitamin D to 25d
form that you get measured and so I
myself was taking a a fair amount of
vitamin D but I really wasn't that
satisfied of of what my blood levels
were and there and I I I mentioned that
what people take is very individualistic
of how you respond some people are
really good metabolites some people AR
aren't as good they need to take a lot
more to get their blood levels you you
only know what it is if you haven't
tested and so I started taking magnesium
and and instantly increased my blood
levels by about
40% and there's no there's really no way
to know if your magnesium repete because
it's a blood measures don't really tell
so the only way to know it is I take I
think 400 milligrams a day of magnesium
oxides Ju Just A supplement every day
that and and then you know your vitamin
your magnesium repete for now other
reasons just vitamin
D so it's a key coor it's a what key
co-actor yeah and in the metabolism of
vitamin D so it interacts the enzyme
that act activates vitamin D that
there's two or three of them need that
magnesium it's a proactor absolutely
have you ever done any research on
vitamin D and
mitochondria I I
haven't well vitamin so vitamin D the
there's two different enzymes one of
them is located in the mitochondria and
one of them is located in the microsomes
different cellular components so that's
that's where that's where these enzymes
that activate vitamin D are within the
cell one in the mitochondria
at one of the micr oh wow that's kind of
important the mitochondria as far as
I'll have to look where that's what that
does or what if it how it influences the
mitochondria which
is so so much of a problem with so many
people if someone takes a higher doses
uh like a large dose of uh vitamin D3
isn't it isn't there uh some mechanism
that it does turn turn into inert
compounds I think I uh it was one was
called um tacol or
lumisol well those those are things
those compounds are made in the skin by
sun exposure it's probably one of the
ways that the body regulates how much
vitamin D so so if you're if you're pale
as a ghost and you go out in the Summer
sun and and expose yourself to 20
minutes or so of intense sunlight on the
initial exposure you'll you'll make
about 20,000 units of vitamin D that'll
be released into your blood over the
next day okay but then you start tanning
and that exposure becomes less you know
you you the next day you'll make less
and less and less and and that's where
the the production of these tools and
and lumisterol and all these things uh
um probably assist
in Banting the effect of D made by the
Sun but in the body once you take once
you take vitamin
D I'm not sure it's metabolized into
those things I think it just disappears
you know the body will just excrete it
through the bile acid functions and then
activate it but those what you're
mentioning is a control point for the
sun solar uh production of vitamin D in
your skin okay and then as far as the
you know you have hyperal CIA um I think
they have exaggerated that a bit but U
what's your take on um toxic doses in in
the research on the tox you're gonna you
know even people are saying oh you're
taking 10,000 you're gonna you're gonna
get kidney stones like really well
vitamin D has never been associated in
studies with getting kidney
stones wow I mean most kidney stones are
oxalates I mean it it can I mean so if
you're taking if you're worried about
kidney stones and vitamin D uh and if
people are taking high doses say they're
taking 30 40 50,000 units for cancer my
my first my recommendation would be
limit your Dairy
intake okay the other thing is that
before anything happens in the blood it
happens in the urine
first so if you're worried about high
you know high blood calcium or too much
vitamin D you would have your urinary
calcium monitored as long as there's no
calcium being dumped into your urine you
don't have a
problem and at 20,000 units I mean there
are rare genetic defects that would
cause uh uh uh vitamin D to become toxic
and one of those is a an enzyme that
inactivates vitamin B called the 24
hydroxylase in the kidney and other
tissues and if you have a defect in that
enzyme then it's potentially you could
become toxic but those are really rare
defects so if we take those out of the
picture how many people really end up
getting hypercalcemia from we never saw
one and all and we our studies that we
did in pregnancy and lactation when when
I propose to do these studies and back
then you could get this is in the early
2000s so when we propos to do these
studies in pregnancy and and and
pregnancy is most sensitive group you
can do studies in so we were proposing
in these studies that we were going to
give pregnant women 4,000 units a day
because that's what we calculated they
would need uh to become sufficient it's
probably low but you know you have to
start somewhere and at the time 2,000
units was the UL mean upper limit of
safety so we proposed 4,000 and and so
the the granting agency saw yeah this
Grant's great but we you can't do this
you'll kill
people so we said no we won't and so the
the the funding agency said we
conditionally approved this grant if you
go to the FDA and get an IND number
investigational drug number that's a
drug companies have to do when they come
up with new drugs we had to do it for
vitamin
D okay and we did it we we submitted an
IND it delayed the study by a year and
the U and the FDA granted our indd
application and as a consequence we had
massive monitoring we had monitoring
committees we had to report to FDA every
month and we never saw an adverse event
due to vitamin D supplementation and a
lot of other people used our IND for
other things other you know there were
all kinds of studies going on never once
was a an intake to we saw hyper Calum or
hypercal if if we saw it usually was due
to something like dehydration but it was
never due to vitamin D supplementation
in
incredible um know knowing the
importance of vitamin D like I it's a
one of the probably the most important
vitamins how did you stumble on start
doing research on vitamin D did you know
this in advance how important vitamin D
was for the body news started when I was
a graduate student at Ohio State
University and at the time I was in I
was in uh Agriculture and uh my adviser
at the time they were looking at a at in
in C CLE there's a disease called milk
fever it's called parrian paresis and
what happens is these dairy cattle are
bred to make massive amounts of
milk okay physiologically it's it's
physiologically it's not sustainable and
what happens in those cattle is they go
through more and more
lactations they become they can't
maintain serum calcium once lactation is
initiated because their blood levels of
calcium
plummet and and it turns out why that
happens is they're they they need to
mobilize bone calcium and as they get
older and into more and more lactation
Cycles it becomes impossible for them to
do it so once they initiate lactation
their blood calcium would drop to four
or five and they just Keel over and lay
there because they're you know they're
paralyzed and then the farmer would have
to dose them with high doses of calcium
and then the cow would stand right up
and then it would fall again the cow
would fall down so and when this happens
it's a big economic loss because you
know they got to get the cow can't breed
anymore and the cow can't make milk and
so they looked at ways to make it better
for the cow not to go into this
condition and one of the ways was to
give them really huge levels of vitamin
D uh to make it stop and it was
successful to some degree but there were
other things that were better but that's
how I got into this and then and then I
I I of course went more towards human
nutrition and I got I was interested in
the milk issue and I was interacting
with with uh people in in Pediatrics and
you know the first grant we came up with
it's interesting so the the first grant
back in what I was telling you about the
FDA are it was basically a safety study
that we were designing to look at and
and based around skeleton at that time
we didn't even know to ask the questions
about does vitamin D prevent pre-term
birth and and and uh preclampsia and and
pre-term diabetes and all this other
stuff so we ran a study and when the
data were analyzed this was uh uh this
is where it was it's frowned upon they
said we analyzed the data and we said
look at this vitamin D is is uh
preventing pre-term birth and it's
preventing complications of birth and I
presented it at a meeting it was in 2009
and and I mean the audience went crazy
in the wrong
way I mean I was attacked how dare you
say this you know this is heresy this
can't be true you know I mean it was
incredible so when you when you
introduce data like that you better be
prepared to be hammered wow
wow and then and then you know since
that time it's been basically it's shown
uh there was an article that's in that
uh uh that was we did called the vdart
study at Harvard it was done with Scott
Weiss who was a world rown asthma
specialist and we found out that vitamin
D could you could if you give enough
vitamin D especially like preconception
you could basically eliminate childhood
asthma but no one will you know you know
the the data are clear if you analyze it
in the appropriate fashion like is
discussed in this Townson newsletter
article and even wise chimes in and and
we learned a lot from that study like we
do from all these studies that you
needed to give more needed to correct
Baseline levels and you could you could
you know there would hardly ever be
another asthma childhood asthma child
born if the mothers were replete when
they conceived or even started taking it
early in in when they found out they're
pregnant uh you know most of our studies
were in the first trimester because
that's when they walk in and they figure
out they're pregnant you know you can't
to do pre-term or preconception studies
is hugely but that's when it would be
most
because the vitamin D deficiency in the
trials that we run is mostly missed in
the first trimester because you don't
even woman don't know they're pregnant
so you're only getting a hold of 12
weeks or so or maybe later than
that I think it's probably the most
important time to eat healthy and get
enough nutrition is when you're not born
before you're born yeah um incredible so
um wow I'm just
I mean it leaves you speechless because
you you you you have this knowledge and
you know and it's going away because you
can't nobody else can do followup brants
on this
anymore because when it goes to this the
government first of all the the
government won't you know these studies
that we did they cost
Millions uh the vital study was 30 35
million maybe more of to me it was
totally wasted money because it was our
studies that we did in pregnancy were
probably over the terms of the grants
were five or six million doar to do
these clinical studies and government
isn't going to Shell out that kind of
money anymore and the drug companies
will pay him not to do it
incredible incredible so you either
accept the data that we have now and and
I think that people should also not only
look at the randomized trial data that
that we did and and the one in and the
things that were done overseas where you
had true vitamin D deficiency you could
do do a real randomized trial and not
have it compromised by what levels were
in these women in the beginning and and
the the the other thing in our country
is non-compliance of the patients is a
serious
issue they don't comply oh yeah doc I
took the vitamin one in fact they never
took it at all and and you know here's
the other thing in intent to treat if
you know that those people aren't
complying you can't eliminate them from
the data analysis what no that violates
the intent to treat
Mar
wow wow these are this is this is this
is stuff that people don't know they
have no clue unless you're in the
research field so I guess in certain
parts of other countries around the
world there's probably maybe places
where you hopefully they'll continue
doing vitamin D research I don't know
yeah I mean you know like I said there's
stuff still going on in Iran you know
where where those countries really have
a really big vitamin D deficiency
problem because the lifesty women are in
barkers and they're not allowed to be in
the Sun and so you have a in in in
places in India the same way right what
about Saudi Arabia yeah Saudi Arabia too
any any of the Muslim countries where
they where the where the females are are
restricted uh have a horrible vitamin D
deficiency problem well you got me
thinking about that because they you
have compounded by all the diabetes they
have no sun no vitamin D yeah
incredible is there is there anything
else that that you want to U end off
with that you want people to know about
this has just been mind-blowing and I'm
gonna I I think that the only not that
you're never going to get well I can't
say never because my like my physician
is pretty Progressive on all this stuff
so there are Physicians that that are
but the ones who depend on their
professional organizations for
recommendations like the geriatric
Society like
OBGYN e even in in Pediatrics and if
they're only looking at the
recommendations coming out of those
professional societies which are solely
based on reports like the endocrine
Society like which just came out with
revised recommendations which are
ridiculous they're again they've they
they've decreased everything that people
should be taking uh going back to the
Institute of medicine 2010 which has
never been redone uh you know what you
you have to look at at at programs like
your own to educate people uh and
fortification is only done to highly
motivated
individuals you know or supplementation
I think fortification is a different
matter but until the government would
change you never you know we always
sought to get fortification of product
higher like milk for vitamin D like but
they don't they don't want to do it no
so and and and so supplementation is
only done is done by highly motivated
individuals and and how do you you know
how do you prove
prevention right you know you can look
at the you can look at uh observational
retrospective data and a lot of the data
that came out of the are you familiar
with the Physicians health study at
Harvard run by Walter Willet group I
mean it's been going since the mid 80s
it's health professional studies
basically it was Physicians or Nur nures
participated in this study and every
year they give a blood sample and every
year they fill a questionnaire what
happened to you this year did you have a
heart attack did you get cancer how you
know and then they had these blood
samples Bank millions of these samples
and what they do is then they say okay
we want to look at this disease related
to this compound and there's been a
number of those studies done on vitamin
D mostly all positive and and those data
are really valuable okay because those
look at lifestyle over a long period of
change but they're
discarded when you when studies like
vital say
yes are they still doing that study now
or are they is yes yeah health
professional study still
Ono okay yeah I think he's he's he was
involved in the what the the planetary
Health diet the new planetary Health
diet yeah oh yeah well it's involved in
everything the most cited scientist on
you know in the history of science
science incredible and I know Walter
will I've interacted with him in the
past quite a bit on this stuff he
definitely gets a lot of funding but but
that study that that that that those
health professional studies were a gold
mine I mean and extraordinary
value you know not a randomized trial
but there's a lot of data in there that
should be paid to attention should be
paid attention to yeah well I'm sure
it'll get published if if vitamin D is
not favorable
wow this has been incredible thank you
so much for taking your time to uh do
this and you're welcome I'm going to put
that link down below of that article
from the Townson report so everyone can
check it out but thank you so much
