[Music]
hey guys I'm back with a guest and this
week we have vivica many guests did I
pronounce that correct okay now I wanted
to interview you because I actually have
your book okay this little book right
here so it's the keto paleo kitchen and
I thought it was really cool because I'm
always looking for good cookbooks and
you also had another ebook that I had on
keto bombs I don't have it that's all
it's a it's a digital one it's a key is
a real book oh this is the the
everything little book of SCI bombs or
something like yeah like yeah yeah
Kindle I actually bought it and I used
it in some recipes so I just wanted to I
just wanted to bring you on and just ask
you some questions today so because the
book I'm like it's over the top you have
I mean did you take all these pictures
is a lot of work and at the beginning
you know because I'm a blogger I used to
be a photographer and like I wanted to
take the pictures and the publisher is
like we already have a photographer
separate and I was like you know all sad
and then I was like oh yes this is the
best thing ever because it's too much
work to make the recipes in proofread
like yeah it's amazing and the thing
that I liked about it is that if you're
gonna you know talk about going on a
ketogenic program you want it to be
delicious I mean this looks like very
satisfying it's not it doesn't look like
a diet at all so you doctor you wanna
hear something funny
what's up action somebody left me an
Amazon review I think yesterday and they
were like I don't like this book is too
gourmet for me and they left me a
one-star review and I was like I don't
know this is good or bad
I should have downplayed it a little bit
but I thought it was quite well I mean
you put some time into this amazing so a
couple
things I want to bring up you do a lot
of cooking you originally from Italy
right so of course it's in your genes
that you can cook because it's everyone
can cook there right I always wanted to
go to Italy but I know the food is do
you go there on you go there often or
just ok once a year just in the last
year I wasn't able to go because I was
too busy working but usually my parents
are there so I want to use them Wow
regularly someday I'm gonna go there I
wanted to go there cuz I heard the food
is incredible and I mean people just
like everything revolves around eating
right you go to dinner it's not a quick
thing they sit down they chat they talk
I guess you guys also eat later right
okok 8:30
sometimes even 9 that's wild Wow I'm
using bed by now what's that
dinner goes for at least an hour you
know yeah amazing
ok so can you give me I want to know
some tips on cooking certain things like
any techniques like like I'm looking at
this this meat here is there any tips
because sometimes when I cook it just
doesn't come out right it comes out like
like rubber it's not tender so is there
any tips that you can give us for
cooking meat that is the right texture
that's you know that melts in your mouth
versus well I think like with ground
beef you definitely can kind of mess it
up but because there is like I use
ground beef a lot especially in my daily
life when I'm really busy and when you
eat something a lot you really want it
to taste good because if it doesn't
taste so good like you're gonna not want
to eat it you know so do one thing this
really important source of a light is a
cast iron pan and you know if I'm just
cooking like you can cook ground beef in
two ways you can have patty is kind of
like burgers and then I put them in the
cast iron or sometimes with my rich cast
iron so I get a nice grill marks on them
and or I can make it lose ground beef so
it would be more if I'm gonna make write
stuffing
and a sauce to it or you know season in
a certain way and roll it up in and leaf
or lettuce leaf or whatever so but there
are two different things so one is the
patty and one is the loose crumbly one
so when you do the patty you want to
make sure that your cast iron pan is hot
you want it really hard to sear the
outside so you seal in the juices kind
of like you do for a steak but what
happens I don't know if you've ever seen
it dr. Berg when you put your beef or
your steak or your ground beef in a pan
and then it's not hot enough and he just
starts turning great yeah when simmering
and losing all the blood and the blood
kind of oozes out and turns gray and you
know and then it tastes like wet laundry
doesn't Brown so you want a nice brown
caramelized outside like you know so
that seals in the juices it gives you
that nice roasted you know grilled
flavor and then the inside I prefer to
cook my me to medium-rare cuz you know
you probably know all about the benefits
of raw protein god forever yes you know
and so I try to leave the inside pink or
if the beef is really good it's not
frozen it's just fresh like in Italy
we eat a lot of raw meat and in America
is like oh my god really it is crazy
but we have carpaccio which is the
thinly slice and I have a version of
carpaccio in there kind of sneaky you
know not quite as rise in Italy this one
is seared but in Italy we just eat
straight romaine ground raw meat as well
but it's really fresh and they take the
whole piece of meat and then they they
mean say and then they serve it right
away so the bacteria doesn't grow so I
am used to eating raw meat and so I like
my burger kind of raw inside by le soir
so I will sear them on the outside get a
nice flavor and then you know do my salt
and pepper and then I'll turn down the
heat I'll turn MC
the other side and then we turn down the
heat and you just keep an eye and you
want to get an inside sometimes you can
just leave and remove them from the heat
and let them rest which is really good
for me and that makes them really
gendered so not just to stake by even
your sander burger patty and I make a
bunch sometimes because I you know if
I'm super busy like most days I just
make a bunch of just a simple patties or
the big boss and and then I just let him
sit there and rest and then I mean one
or two and the rest is for you know my
next meals and so when you do the
crumbly beef inside same thing you want
the pot the cast iron pan to be first
big enough because if it's too small
same thing it's the beef is gonna just
sit there and simmer turn gray and not
brown and well you know you want a nice
wide skillet and you want it really hot
and you want your beef to be a room
temperature very important you don't
want it to be cold straight out of the
fridge because then you have the
temperature shot and in order to bring
the inside to temperature it takes a lot
longer the outside is not going to brown
in the same way so take a deep package
of beef be a steak or the ground take it
out at least an hour or two hours before
make sure it's nice and warmed up all
the way through then you put it into
your super hot cast iron and you quickly
like move it around enough to get an
even sear all around and then depending
on what you're making if it's something
that you're gonna eat just like that you
might want to just again not overcook it
and leave that some of the pink protein
and if you're gonna make it into
something like a sauce I can make a
modified bolognese sauce for a keto
version keto paler version of Bolognese
then I want it really cooked because
it's then gonna cook with the tomato for
another I don't know how long so I will
get all my beef nice and brown and brown
all the way through pretty cooked
through and then I will add my tomato
and keep it
they usually don't add a lot of tomato
sauce because you know it's too Caribee
but I will add maybe one roasted tomato
that I roasted myself and that would
just kind of give you the texture and
the flavor got it
you know when you go to the grocery
store it's hard to find
a fatty meat because mainly it's like if
it's like 95 percent lean and you're
buying this hamburger and try to cook it
there's no fat it comes out terrible
terrible you can't cook with lean
hamburger right I mean it's disgusting
yeah I didn't honestly really buy a lot
of over the counter grocery store meat
just because he comes from factory farms
were you behind I buy I try to buy from
the farmers market as much as I can and
also have these what are they called
hope I'm having a blank but there is a
crowd cow yeah there crowd cow so I use
them occasionally when I can't find good
me to run but they source cow shares so
when I used to live in Northern
California I went to the farmer and now
I'm back near Los Angeles there is not
enough farmers so I used crowd cow and
just like buy some pal shares from down
and then I stuck him in the freezer and
I can get a good quality of ground beef
yeah I really choose not to eat factory
farm beef is not good for the planet and
is not good for the person yeah you'd
have to do and I recommend everyone do
grass-fed organic beef now question when
you buy tomato sauce loaded with sugar
in Italy do they put a lot of sugar in
the tomato sauce like the authentic they
don't you actually can find some Italian
products here you know we have a very
famous product this cup for me and
that's what I grew up with it is like
just tomato puree and because we are so
many tomatoes in Italy but they just say
right to me
puree them pasteurized them and put it
in a can like the milk cartons and
that's what we use so in Italy this is
the main product that we use we don't
really use sauce because you make your
own sauce and that is the base for the
sauce so if you want to make sauce you
got your puree of tomatoes and then you
reduce it yourself with olive oil and
spices and whatever you want to use so
there is no other ingredients that
tomato so what then
what's the secret to making it taste so
good you know the Italian sauce and it's
really the key right and that's the
secret to make something see the
ingredient I think is I well of course
good tomatoes and you know they need to
be sweet cuz I greenhouse Tomatoes right
they don't really do it but I think the
real secret ingredient is time and
making sure that like you cook your
sauce down so you start with tomato
puree and you can do what we call
sofrito so you chop a little bit of
onion and just a little bit a little bit
of garlic lots of olive oil and you just
Brown those a little bit ooh first
flavor and it can be like a tablespoon
you know it doesn't have to be a lot but
it gives it a flavor mmm and then you
just put the tomato puree on it and you
just let it cook for a long time and
yeah and like maybe a couple of leaves
of basil white liquid cocaine just again
you add some flavor to it but the real
you know it concentrates it down enough
and then you know it concentrates the
sugars what we need to kind of watch out
yeah that's always always the point hey
I wouldn't have a question you mention
in your book it's called keto paleo now
why do you call it
paleo keto paleo well those would know
me they don't know I come from a paleo
background but I my paleo dream was kind
of shattered that the chef found out I
was pre-diabetic and paleo wasn't
working so good for me because like my
bless you
girls were like I play crazy so I had to
transition from
Geneo to Quito but I did not just forget
paleo because I started doing it to
Jenny because I knew the principles of
my food were good so for me what keto
paleo means is that you eat fresh food
you eat whole foods you eat unprocessed
foods you don't need junk food and then
on top of it you use ketogenic ratios I
also don't eat dairy especially well
it's both an ethical question but as
especially a hormonal questions because
as as a woman I know that the dairy
really messes with me and with my
hormones which ruin my life so I avoided
air and do way better without it I can
have it as a treat but in general I try
to be pretty strict about the clean
paleo diet with ketogenic ratios so I
don't do all the sweeteners the maple
syrup honey you know all those things
and the deserts of the Paleo diet it's a
pretty simple diet and you know I try to
focus really on healing foods because
that's what I do in my practice I use a
lot of food and the diet as a staple for
helping people get better and I know dr.
bird you agree with me because you know
I stalk you on Facebook so we have a lot
of things in Casa fear and I love your
approach about you know Whole Foods and
you know clean foods organic grass-fed
and how you know I also love the way
that you explain the physiology behind
it at some it's really awesome oh thanks
yeah I think I think we're on the same
page probably like 95 98 percent of the
time there's I guess there's one thing
that you talk about on your website that
we can just bring up and talk about
right now but has to do it I guess
menopausal females that have adrenal
issues you don't recommend
in fasting right yeah especially as they
get into menopause so perimenopausal to
menopausal that delicate transition I
know I know you're a big fan of
intermittent fasting and I eyes can see
your points for sure and I know that
most people are there lots of people out
there can benefit from intermittent
fasting but for me it really seems like
this specific kind typology of person so
as a woman and usually is between 45 to
54 55 in that transition period and it
just seems like their adrenals cannot
take the intermittent fasting and if it
spikes their blood sugar it makes them
tired me makes them more hungry seems to
spike the insulin it just works in all
the wrong ways
so I usually don't even recommend trying
it until I can work with them enough
where I can get them to like get their
adrenals back on mine I just say don't
do it
alright cool hey can I show you one
thing oh yes okay good I'm drawing a
picture right now I'm gonna show you
something I love your pictures under
board
so right here can you see this okay yeah
okay so we have a chart right here's the
blood sugars here's normal and it spikes
and then it drops down right here one of
the purposes of the adrenal is to
stabilize the blood sugars to counter
low blood sugar so when the blood sugar
when someone is hypoglycemia because
they have too much insulin the Drina
kinks in there and starts releasing
sugar so cortisol is called a
glucocorticoid it's a glucose hormone so
it kicks in right here and it's supposed
to bring it back up but if you have an
adrenal problem like most women that get
in their 40s and 50s they're not going
to be able to stabilize the blood
Sugar's so they're gonna tend to have
low blood sugars more than not
and so now if we add it in a minute
fasting what's gonna happen they're
gonna crash and burns they're gonna feel
kind of funky they're gonna get
headaches Moody they're gonna have a
heck of a time
now here's my point their body is
breaking down protein too fast that's
why they get atrophy they you know they
start they have a hard time losing
weight so the metabolism is is messed up
so my viewpoint is it's the only diet
they should focus on because if they
don't they'll never be able to fix the
metabolism and the problem and if you
really understand what's happening if
you fix the adrenals and do it on a very
small little level the dream the blood
sugars will get better and better and
better until the point where they will
no longer get hypoglycemia then what'll
happen now they're really in ketosis and
fat burning and the benefit of that is
going to be huge especially for when
they get into a toffee G which is the
recycling of proteins because their
cortisol is breaking down protein too
fast so we want to reverse that
catabolic effect and the collagen etapa
g is like it's like the best anti aging
increases growth hormone so really they
might feel bad when they start doing it
but if they take enough B vitamins
vegetables potassium and their fat at
the meal and do it at a smaller little
gradient it's gonna be the best for them
long term but initially they're gonna
feel like hell if they try to go to one
meal a day or two meals a day too fast
that makes sense yeah well you know I
really appreciate your knowledge and I
really appreciate wisdom and I I'm gonna
put some guinea pigs through that yeah
yeah my poor patients know I have I have
patients that really want to try and I'm
just gonna practice and see like how
your approach works and I have a good
feeling that you know the increments the
support with supplements which is
sometimes really
crucial I think that that can make all
the difference and bring us where we
need to go yeah you should try because
right now I have thousands and thousands
of menopausal women doing this with
amazing amazing success but the problem
is they have to once they get it and
understand they're gonna have to go
through a phase of kind of blood sugar
stuff but we do it real slowly it's very
comfortable but when they get through it
they finally are able to lose the weight
because the number one complaint for
menopausal female is they can't lose
weight no matter what I know and so the
benefits of getting them into a full
ketosis see the thing is that they just
do ketosis without any minute fasting it
might not be enough to help them lose
anyway unfortunately so because to fix
insulin you have to eat less frequent
that's the whole point well I like your
idea about that briefly we touched on it
before and there are other interview but
I really like your idea of like moving
the meals further away like one hour
every like week or every day like you
know as fast as they can take it and
just slowly spacing them out spacing
them out so mmm I think that is a very
workable approach and like I'm game okay
games good and I'll just for those
people that don't know what I'm talking
about let's just take a pic like you're
eating three meals a day right breakfast
lunch in there first step is don't eat
any snacks okay
add fat a lot of vegetables maybe some B
vitamins natural nutritional yeast and
then the second thing is you slowly push
your breakfast forward an hour so you're
comfortable and don't eat if you're not
hungry so we can go longer in the
morning if you if you're hungry in the
morning we know your blood sugars are
messed up if you wake up in the middle
of night and you're like seriously
hungry we know you have hypoglycemia so
we have to slowly bring this breakfast
later until it's like eleven and then
twelve and then one and then now you're
actually at two meals a day that alone
will probably be enough to be very
successful with your weight with your
hormones and then some people push it
even
today but the more times you eat the
worse it becomes with insulin so that's
the point
unfortunately it's kind of one of those
things but you'll see you'll save a lot
of money from all the food that you eat
and then you can focus on buying more
quality food I have people say oh I'm on
the budget I can't afford it I'm like
that's right because you're eating six
times a day and you're eating the wrong
food but it's very it's not it's not too
bad
hey I want to shift gears you have these
things right here like Kido Kido balm
type things and I noticed that I guess
here the sweetener you're using
it's called LeConte Oh what is that
Kanto about a year ago when I met on the
makers of Lepanto had a with an event
and I kind of got the chance to pick
your brain a little bit because so you
know honestly dr. Berg there is no
sweetener that I would say green-flag
hundred percent if you ask me really
don't use it just skip it you know
that's the goal ideal but you know I
also understand how especially when you
transition away from a conventional diet
you need some transition anchors so
switching from traditional sweets to
Quito sweets is a good stop you know
it's a very good way for you to win off
the excess sugar and access carbs and
kind of transition into like a very
lower much lower carbohydrate kind of
treat and we all want to treat sometime
you know so there is nothing wrong with
that what it is
what does look at our canto is monkford
sugar butt isn't such a small tree sugar
so it's like let's say it's a percentage
of monster sugar with a reach at all and
you know I did some tests on myself and
on some patience or so kind to take
tests with me in some mini clinical
study done in practice and we tested
blood sugars with all kinds of different
sweeteners to see how different blood
sugars would react and what I found is
that of my patients and myself a lot of
people are really sensitive to xylitol
and xylitol will still spike your blood
sugar that was maybe like eight out of
ten people with the research or four out
of ten people had no reaction I mean as
a four out of ten had a reaction so six
out of ten and no reaction with it and
when they did have a reaction it was
much smaller and if the spike was there
but it was really my new so you know I
think it's also part of like the never
lingual response and the receptors to
the flavor suite that do their own thing
you know aside from the actual
carbohydrate content so you can never
fully detangle them in my opinion but um
do you remember when you did the study
did you how much quantity you used to
remember how much you used to it is it a
been awhile ago sir a tablespoon in a
recipe and we did a couple of years ago
so I don't remember which recipe I use
and you remember it was something simple
and I gave him a couple of options for a
recipe and they told them test yourself
and then we tested stevia as well and I
think that was it because I don't
recommend things like Splenda or
anything that's fully artificial
chemical you know synthetic so I don't
commend that but of like the naturals
more natural sweeteners and the sugar
alcohols that's what we are tested right
cool yeah Retreat all seemed to do the
best with less gastric upset you know
and last side-effects and last blood
sugar spiking mm-hmm cool well I'll just
mention because this comes up a little
bit I have an ice cream that I have a
couple different sweeteners in there
but one is xylitol but I use a non-gmo
but the the point is that the if you're
consuming one serving size which is
three quarters of a cup
not the whole thing you're doing such a
small amount of xylitol it's so
insignificant so a lot of times when
people do tests and they do it online
they're consuming a lot of it and there
is a bit of a glycemic index on xylitol
compared there we throw at all but
there's less digestive stuff than a
wreath wrote all because I'll notice
that some of the ice creams that have a
wreath wrote all people have to run in
the bathroom
but xylitol doesn't create that effect
nearly as much but it will spike the
insulin a little bit more if you have a
lot of it so but the problem is when you
use eyelet all and not I'm sorry when
you use a wreath role and not the
xylitol with the ice cream you can't get
the texture you can't get the texture so
we've tried a lot of different things
and we finally have something that
tastes exactly like ice cream if not
better creamy and it's awesome and now
we're gonna put Kido bombs in the ice
cream so yeah but that's meant as a you
know it's kind of like as you do this
you might not need the kita bombs but
it's nice to be able to have that
occasionally and just to kind of treat
yourself and Plus people that when they
begin they be are so used to the junk
they need something to transition off
that junk food but yeah I mean I'm
transitioned and I still eat your ice
cream you know I think it's delicious
and like I really have it in the freezer
and when the urge comes I'd rather go to
that then you know something bad where
do you stand sometimes doesn't want to
make it yourself like you know and most
days I'm so busy that if I manage to
produce a recipe every couple of weeks
for my blog is a good thing you know but
and to have something like that ready
new freezer is just pretty awesome and
you can feed it to people when they come
visit so you know to bring their junk
ice cream yeah yeah and my thing right
now I'm working on trying to get it into
some stores which is a little bit of a
transition but because the the shipping
is a bit expensive but the
the key to bomb in the ice-cream is to
die for
it's like literally so much pleasure
you're eating this thing you're like
it's just so high in fat which it's like
oh my gosh I just it's just so
satisfying you don't need much enough is
like right after the meal I mean that's
when you do like the two meals a day or
one meal a day and you have that you're
good it's not gonna cause weight gain so
all these other ice creams are focused
on low fat I'm like no let's like let's
go more in fat coconut oil whatever and
just load it up and that way you can not
have it as often yeah well thank you so
much for this interview this is the book
keto paleo kitchen it's on Amazon you
guys can check it out it's awesome very
high quality you should have told me
that you did the pictures because I
would be like what no there's I'm just
teasing but it's very high-end it's like
it's just like very appetizing nope very
low carb so well done it's probably my
favorites one of my favorite things
about that book that it has a special
binding when you put it down it lays
flat on the counter and it doesn't break
oh that's nice
pretty thick so even if you spill stuff
on it it's not really gonna stain so
it's like a kitchen proof book yeah you
put a lot of work into this I can tell
so well done because I know what it
takes to write a book and it takes blood
sweat and tears so well done well thank
you so much and we enjoyed the interview
and we'll do some more of these soon
okay okay thank you so much dr. burns
awesome all right you're welcome
I'll see you
