hey guys I recently had a question
related to insomnia and Kido the person
started aikido and then couldn't sleep
anymore okay so here's what usually is
happening it's usually a calcium
deficiency okay it's the first thing I
would add to the whole mix because
sometimes when you do a ketogenic diet
if you're kind of like a subclinical low
amounts of calcium in the body it can
become more of a major deficiency and
show up as muscle cramps and also kind
of be like you're tired but you just
can't turn off like like your head is
tired but you just can't go into that
deep sleep so some calcium would benefit
greatly but I would recommend taking the
calcium with magnesium okay together you
can get those in various forms either a
powder or actually a tablet make sure
it's not calcium carbonate but if you
take calcium magnesium you're going to
be fine because magnesium is another
common deficiency that can also affect
your sleep so the combination of both of
these is really good for sleep take it
before bed on empty stomach
well you're probably already gonna do an
empty stomach because you're on in a
minute fasting so that's fine it's
number two this is me the second thing
to look at is your potassium levels low
if you're deficient in potassium it can
elevate pulse rate blood pressure it
could affect the muscles because
potassium is a physiological
tranquilizer a calm the nervous system
down and usually if you're doing the
vegetables you're gonna be totally fine
sometimes you need to take it as a
supplement or electrolyte powder and
this will definitely help calm the
nervous system third thing I would look
at is b1 b1 is really good for the
excessive thinking that keeps you up at
night but this also can calm the body I
recommend getting this in a form which
is called nutritional yeast make sure
it's non fortified and that will usually
help you the other point I want to bring
up is if you're consuming too much
protein protein can act as a stimulant
and that alone can keep you up so keep
your protein between 3 and 6 ounces and
the last point I want to bring up is
that when your body starts getting into
ketosis in general
it starts to generate more energy so you
might have more energy on Aikido than
the sugar thing which is just makes you
more tired and so you may have to add
more exercise more walking to kind of
get the energy out all right thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know hey that
rhymes
