hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the difference between grass
fed and grass-finished beef
okay there's little confusion about what
this means grass fed is simply cows who
eat grass or sealy started on grass but
usually finished on grains now the two
reasons for this
number one depending on where you're
raising these cows with the seasons you
might not have the grass and the other
reason to finish off the cause of grains
is because they will gain more weight
you can sell them for more money now
when we get to grass-finished are
basically cows who eat nothing but grass
their entire lives okay but you're going
to get more omega-3 fatty acids you're
going to get more CLA that's a healthy
type of fat more vitamin E more vitamin
A and what's interesting is that 97% of
all the beef sold in the US is grain fed
feedlot factory farming and of course
the grains are GMO soy and corn now what
you're going to start seeing in the
future is you're going to see these guys
they're gonna start doing grass-fed but
they're not going to do pasture raised
they're gonna do the factory farming
with the grass pellets so you really
want grass-fed grass-finished pasture
raised which means the cows are actually
out there eating the grass in the
pasture now I found a really good
company that has grass-fed
grass-finished pasture raised high
quality I put a link down below and I
got them to give you a little discount
so check it out
hey you know what I just want to say
something only 30% of the people that
watching this video actually make it
this far and you did so I really
appreciate you thank you so much
