hey guys dr. Burke here in this video I
want to talk about vitamin D and viruses
you realize at seventy-five percent of
all infections are viral interesting
vitamin D can reduce viral infections by
fifty percent and when you consume
vitamin D always consumer in vitamin b3
okay taking twenty thousand i use will
greatly improve a cold sore all right so
you may want to try that next time you
get one in the fall people that the flu
guess why i believe it's because the Sun
you know you don't have the Sun from the
summer and then boom you become
deficient in vitamin D because vitamin d
deficiencies will increase
susceptibility to viruses and make you
more susceptible we always talk about
vitamin C for the immune system vitamin
D is I think even more important vitamin
D will improve autoimmune conditions
vitamin D is a hormone precursor it's
almost like considered a hormone and it
actually is a precursor to cortisol and
cortisol is a stress hormone but
intimately involved in immune system
function as well and that's why when
someone gets any type of autoimmune or
any type of infection they take steroids
or prednisone because of that because it
suppresses the white blood cell okay so
vitamin d connect is a broad spectrum
antibiotic a natural one also if you add
zinc vitamin A and selenium together
with vitamin D I think you would have a
great natural remedy for viral infection
thanks for watching
