hey guys I want to I want to mention uh
the trace minerals for a second trace
minerals are those minerals that are
needed in very small amounts but they're
very missing in our environment in our
food supply simply because the Farms out
there do not put the minerals back in
the soil so you end up with empty food
in Europe they or Africa they have a lot
of Trace minerals but in America they
don't so this is going to supply all
those Trac minerals the other thing that
is interesting this is a
plantbased uh minerals this is not like
salt based so you get 100% absorption
rate and it's 15 to 19,000 times smaller
than these other minerals so it all just
kind of goes in like a rocket ship
because it's from Plants it's
prehistoric and it's been around since
70 million years ago so it's it's in a
great source for your body and so that
means that uh plant-based minerals are
combined in a way that's very easy to
digest and absorb and they're very easy
in the system and there's no toxicity at
all um but these are the minerals that
are basically in the
plants the other thing is that you this
is in liquid so you would want at least
one dropper full twice a day so you want
to have some in the morning and at night
but you know what if it's more of a
problem you can just take two as much as
it squirts up so it might not be a full
one it might come up to a half one and
then squeeze that in some water and then
do it again so you have two dropper fs
and if it's a problem taking one at
night just take both in the morning um
this is also really good for the protein
in your body like if you want to support
collagen for example uh hair loss
preventing hair loss uh
Nails um wrinkles this is a great thing
to take but it's good for a lot of
things as well so this is the trace
minerals that I recommend um also for
kids because in their diet it's like not
that great so they probably need about
five drops a day and that'll be enough
but for an adult probably two dropper FS
but again The Dropper full only comes up
half away doesn't come up the whole way
so just kind of as much as you can suck
up into it put in water you can put it
in your kale Shake um but dilute it
because it's constant don't don't just
put it in your mouth all right so that's
the trace minerals I'll see you next
video
