hey guys I'm back and we're going to
talk about ketogenic diet results what
to expect when you do this okay so
number one you're gonna notice a lot of
water loss okay I mean some people
notice about 13 pounds of water loss
within the first two weeks
not necessarily fat loss but a lot of
water because all those carbs you've
been eating retain fluid and you get rid
of the carbs the food just goes with it
and you dump a lot of fluid now this is
why you have to take electrolytes or
consume a lot of vegetables to get the
potassium magnesium and even sea salt to
help you counter the loss of all that
electrolyte in the fluid that you just
lost okay and then you're going to go
through something called a keto
adaptation which you may feel kind of
funky irritable moody and fatigued
especially if you need more B vitamins
that's why I recommend nutritional yeast
okay and some type of electrolyte butter
so you can you can really prevent this
and minimize this so if you experience
like these side effects from more than
three days then you're doing it
incorrectly you need more these
nutrients or your carbs aren't low
enough okay so I definitely recommend
bringing those carbs down and combined
in a minute fasting at the exact same
time don't not do that because it's
going to take longer we want to minimize
this little transition phase we want to
get right into it's called keto
adaptation where you're actually burning
fat 24/7
you may notice low blood sugar symptoms
when you're doing fasting simply because
your brain does not store sugar so it's
dependent on what's going on in the
blood so if you have low blood sugar
you're gonna have low brain sugar and
you haven't fully adapted to keto so
your brain is gonna feel kind of funky
again irritable Ness maybe dizzy if you
get up too fast
craving for sweets mainly it may be a
grouchiness but you know what you may
not even experience any of this you
might just go right through this and
then go right to the next level
improvements which you're going to
notice your waist is gonna start
shrinking your clothes are gonna fit
differently you're not going to feel as
bloated your stomach is not going to be
so
ended in swollen it'll be smaller and of
course you'll start losing weight okay
especially after you adapt to fat
burning you'll have better digestion
you'll have more energy the need for
sleep will go down so you basically
won't need as much sleep which is great
so your mood will be enhanced
so whatever mood you were it's gonna
it's gonna come up which is really a
great benefit your skin will start
looking better over time my birthday is
coming up next week and I'll be 53 I've
noticed my skin is so much better doing
in a minute fasting with keto as far as
your muscle goes keto and in the min of
fasting greatly spikes something called
growth hormone which actually helps you
build muscle and so you may find that
your muscles are more developed they're
not actually shrunken they're gonna
actually start healing and growing and
responding to your exercise when before
they they didn't necessarily
inflammation will go right down so you
have less inflammatory issues some
people have like a lot of inflammation
on the skin
psoriasis they might have acne that
tends to clear up but if you have like
bursitis arthritis or any of that any of
the itis --is they're gonna actually
improve and then you're going to notice
your cognitive function is going to be
much better you're more clear thinking
concentration focus memory vision will
all improve so that's what to expect if
you do a healthy Kido and in a minute
fasting plan you have something to look
forward to
alright so your next step is to get
started so I want to know what you're
interested in as far as a future video
click the link down below and share some
ideas I want to hear
