in this video I'm going to show you my
garden now you're probably wondering
what am I doing in my basement well
let's just take a look I'm going to show
you something pretty
cool this is
Hydroponics and hydroponics can be grown
in simple water now right now we have a
water cycle there's minerals in this 55
gallon barrel of water plus about two
cups of minerals that cycle through
these buckets of rocks these are pellets
and all the water does is it Cycles
through it feeds all the plants and then
it drains right out each day so it goes
through a cycle and these minerals
basically feed these tiny vegetable
plants this is not marijuana by the way
these are kale pepper tomato and
different types of lettuce leaves
they're exotic lettuce leaves so it's
basically the plants feed on the
minerals and there's no pest it's all
organic you can pretty much grow enough
vegetables to feed your whole family in
a closet because these vegetables will
go right up to the ceiling about eight
foot tall and um I'm still trying to
figure out how these plants grow this
big because you're just feeding in water
with minerals but they're very nutrient
dense because you can control the pH you
can control the minerals you can control
the sunlight which is a growing light
which basically is on a timer but one of
my secret weapons is this thing right
here one of my patients who's a soil
scientist who works for the usba told me
about it it's called
biochar now biochar is
amazing This was um found in the
Amazon um fertile soils you know if you
go to you hear about the Amazon soils
being very fertile they're all all
man-made actually and they found a long
time ago whoever lived there took the uh
plant or the U the um the wood and they
burned it with um burying it so it used
very little oxygen when you when you you
burn um anything without oxygen you
condense the carbon atoms very very
tightly and that substance which is a
type of charcoal uh is very friendly on
the environment it's very uh friendly on
the um greenhouse effect it's very
fertile for the soil so I put this in
these plant into these Pebbles
underneath here and it makes the um
fertility of the soil that much better
because the plants will grow by eight
times so it really poten initiates the
uh fertility of the soil so the plants
can get more nutrition so it's called
biochar check it out it's quite amazing
and it's so inexpensive to use and it's
being used right now all over the world
to uh make the soils more fertile so
what I'll be doing in future videos is
I'm going to show you the different
stages of how this works and uh how fast
it grows I even have CO2 being pumped
out to because uh plants use CO2 and um
to grow and they convert and they give
off oxygen so I'll keep you updated so
this is a little hobby of mine and I
will see you in the next video
