hey guys it's me again I want to talk
about my massage tool this is an
incredible tool that you can apply to
your body to extract stress it comes
with this little booklet and in this
book I show you step by step how to
apply this to your body to pull out most
of the stress in your body in a very
short period of time I use this
Faithfully before I go to bed on my body
and my wife's like are you using that
thing again I said yes because it I
designed it for myself actually and it's
designed by my hand there's three
different uh positions for three
different sizes of people and I would
just simply read the book apply it
exactly like I'm talking about maybe 5
10 minutes before you go to bed and you
will feel the difference you can use it
in a tall back chair or a couch but this
basically is for extracting stress
especially for Sleep pain and just
overall health and I also um gave you
some tips in here about how to get rid
of other types of pain as well low back
pain and some other things so go ahead
and start using this walk through this
and on the back of here you can go to
this website and watch the videos of how
to use this okay
um the main one that you want to use is
the one on the
neck and the adrenals everything else
could be like extra okay but definitely
the one you'll see it on the upper neck
and then on your uh the abdomen area
right here so go ahead and apply those
techniques and the one on the abdomen is
called the fasal points fosha because
the fascia is a little sheath around the
abdomen that tends to hold and support
the organs but it's a point of a it's
like it holds stress as well so you're
going to do those points and go ahead
and apply this and I think think you're
really going to like it
