hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about tahini now
what is tahini you can get it pretty
much at any grocery store but it looks
like that basically sesame seeds
okay so tahini butter has some real
interesting properties and with number
one it doesn't seem to go rancid so you
can keep it in the shell for a long time
and I like to mix it with my almond
butter 5050 and use it with celery but
it's in a lot of different dishes that
you can make I think it's in hummus as
well but tahini has copper in it it has
a real good amount of copper copper is
mainly in the vitamin C complex copper
is good for collagen it's good to
prevent your hair becoming gray it's
good for rheumatoid arthritis so it's
really good for supporting anything
related to collagen like sagging skin
it's a really good remedy now it also
has a vitamin T now it is true that
there's a little bit of vitamin T in egg
yolks and pumpkin seed but vitamin T is
kind of like a forgotten vitamin vitamin
T is really mainly in three sources
sesame seeds grub worms and termites so
let's see let's see grub worm storm IDEs
I'll go with the tahini butter how about
that right so this vitamin T is really
good for the immune system there's
certain research that was done with
leukemia using vitamin T but it's mainly
for your immune system your nervous
system so that's just kind of a little
bit of a side note but anyway tahini is
a really good high-quality peanut butter
alternative in summary instead of always
using peanut butters and nut butters you
can always add a seed butter to enhance
the quality of your health I'll see you
the next video
