hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the 10 common causes of
inflammation okay number one low
cortisol that would be adrenal fatigue
what is cortisol it's an natural
anti-inflammatory it's the
anti-inflammatory of the body when you
run out of it like an adrenal burnout uh
you're going to need prednizone or
cortisone cream just like a lot of
people take when they have chronic pain
so low cortisol that comes from chronic
long-term sustained stress low cortis
you're going to have fybromyalgia and
all sorts of inflammation okay number
two old
injuries I've had a lot of old injuries
old injuries create trauma in Scar
Tissue the scar tissue is heals well the
body heals with scar tissue and the scar
tissue does not have the amount of blood
supply like a muscle so you get this
this
abnormal um tissue that's not very uh
it's just like crab grass in a garden
that starts growing and restricts motion
and creates stiffness and starts growing
around nerve Roots okay not to mention
that air of the body starts to
degenerate faster so you get pinching on
the nerve you get stiffness and
inflammation because it's not moving
anymore okay so that's old injuries
sugar why because it increases insulin
and you start developing a condition
called insulin resistance which one
characteristic of that is inflammation
just by getting this of the diet and
fixing insul resistance you can drop
inflammation way down uh in fact in a
minute fasting is a great way to improve
people with insulin resistance
specifically if they have a lot of
inflammation okay number four grains
especially the gluten that will create
inflammation in the gut but just grains
in general are uh tend to INF uh create
inflammation more than a lot of things
but the big one is the gluten if you
actually are consuming gluten right now
which is the protein and grains that
could be the reason why you have
inflammation I mean I've had taken
people off this off just grains in
general and all of their arthritis
completely clears
up um one actually I lied there's
actually 11 causes of inflammation one
is excessive alkalinity if you're too
alkaline okay what happens is you are
very susceptible to getting allergies
and inflammation and even if you were to
consume citrus which by the way when you
consume like orange or um lemons or
grapefruits what happens in your body
that breaks down into it turns into an
acid but then it turns into a very
strong alkaline substance which will
then push you more into the alkaline and
you'll find that you have more like
stiffness or arthritis so if you have
that situation then you know your body
is too alkaline all right vegetable oils
like corn oil and soy oil and safflower
and sunflower oil that that is very very
high in Omega 6 it's more inflammation
you need omega3 fatty acids and that
would be the Civ oil the fish oils okay
uh you can do also Krill as well or DHA
that's a type of omega-3 fatty acid so
vegetable oil is very very and and like
You' probably get that in salad rtings
or mayo or even um you would get in like
deep fried foods they they bread and
they deep fry like in corn oil you're
going to get a lot of inflammation after
you consume that alcohol that's a given
that's going to destroy your liver and
that will create inflammation Dairy
specifically grain fed grass-fed Dairy
has a lot more omega-3 grain fed which
is commercial is gives you a lot more
omega-6 fatty acid so if you're doing a
grass-fed um dairy or Animal product
chances are you're not going to have
near the
inflammation and by the way that
triggered the memory gra uh grains if
you were to consume kamut which is an
ancient grain you would have not nearly
have the amount of inflammation than you
would do the commercial wheat they do
now so Ancient Grains significantly
lower the inflammation response to
grains even gluten okay there's people I
even know who can consume the Ancient
Grains and have no inflammation at all
MSG monosodium glutamate uh it's kind of
a neurotoxin but it enhances the flavor
of food and it's definitely can create a
lot of uh fluid um buildup and
inflammation this is this is in a lot of
the fast food uh places that you would
go to um okay nine excessive protein if
you're doing large amounts of protein
that are going to be not digested
they're going to be a strain on the
liver and the kidney you're going to end
up with a lot of uric acid which turns
into gout which is a form of arthritis
and inflammation okay so too much
protein can mess with your kidneys and
now you're you're going to have a gout
okay number 10 cooked Foods now one one
meal of cooked Foods is not going to do
anything I'm talking about years of only
eating your food completely cooked or
canned or pasturized why is that because
when you cook food you destroy the
enzymes if you're not eating anything
raw like vegetables for example which I
know a lot of people don't do that
you're going to wear out the liver the
liver has to then be depleted of its
factors and also the pancreas so you're
going to start having a bad liver and
you're going to get stiffness and
arthritis just from that alone so you
want to start adding more raw vegetables
to your diet if you go to some like
Indian restaurants the the vegetables
are so cooked I mean it's like
completely dead that's what I'm talking
about okay in summary we need to correct
this we talked about the 11 causes of
inflammation thank you so much for
watching hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
