hi this is Dr Berg in this video I want
to talk about weird and unexplainable
symptoms um a lot of people go to the
doctor with symptoms and there's really
no test they can pick up a lot of these
uh symptoms and I want to talk about
there's a part of the body called the
autonomic nervous system and this system
runs an automatic it's the system behind
all other systems it controls something
called homeostasis which is the your
body's ability to adapt to its
environment okay so it's constantly
adjusting digestion um even hormones
temperature fluids valves in the body so
let's just kind of go through all the
symptoms some of the symptoms that could
occur if you have a problem with the
autonomic nervous system dysfunction
urinary problems urinary frequency Inc
incontinence all these problems with the
bladder because the autonomic nervous
system controls the valves valve of the
eye so if you actually put some light
into the eye in the mirror and you see
your that little black part go down like
this it should contract or constrict
that's controlled by the autonomic
nervous system if you have a weak
autonomic nervous system that
contraction will won't be able to hold
for 20 seconds it starts going v v v v
it's weak it cannot hold the
constriction so that's a valve
problem next one Can't Sweat you
exercise but you don't sweat that's an
autonomic nervous system dysfunction
sensitivity with sound or light ringing
the ears coughing at night fainting
especially maybe getting up too fast and
then passing out or feeling lightheaded
that's a problem with this too irregular
heart rhythm temperature issues let's
say you feel always hot or always cold
see if you go to an endocrinologist and
they test in your th is normal well it
could be this right here low blood
pressure or high blood pressure pots
which is um when you stand up from lying
down your pulse rate can go too high or
sometimes it goes too low um based on a
little bit of stress on your body dry
eyes sweating easily let's say you get
on the shower and you just break on the
sweat or your palms are sweaty boom
premature ejaculation Sleep Disorders
all sorts of digestive problems where
the The food doesn't digest or you get
constipation and then next day you get
diarrhea
epilepsy these are all symptoms that a
lot of people have and they go to the
endocrinologist they go to the immune
doctor they go to the GP and they don't
find it um the expert of the autonomic
nervous system would be the neurologist
neurologist is an MD that studies the
autonomic nervous system and there's
certain tests that you can do to to
learn about this um one of the first two
symptoms to know that this is breaking
down is one you stand up too fast and
you get dizzy and number two you start
having bladder problems at night okay
those are the first two but there's a
lot of other things that can go wrong um
I even have a test that measures the
autonomic nervous system using a
technology called heart rate variability
HRV testing I don't use it to diagnose
any diseases I use it mainly for stress
testing and to pick up the strength of
this system because I also specialize in
the nervous system but I don't treat
these conditions I do improve this
condition but I don't treat the symptom
this uh autonomic nervous system is is
really three parts one is the flight or
fight mechanism which is sympathetic and
then the other system that's the stress
reaction and then you have the
parasympathetic which is the
recovery of the stress and then the last
system is called ENC which is all about
your digestion and those are the three
systems and part of this system is
embedded inside your adrenal it's also
in your midback and it's up in the back
of the neck so it's all over the place
and it helps you regulate a lot of body
functions so if you have these weird
symptoms just realize it could be a
problem with that system and you can
kind of invest toate it more thoroughly
yourself
