hey guys dr. Burke here I have a
question for you why does the body make
3,000 milligrams of cholesterol every
single day because cholesterol is
considered a real bad thing right why
does your body make 3,000 milligrams a
day
in fact the liver makes 2,000 milligrams
a day the rest of the cells make a
thousand if it's so bad why does your
body make so much this is a question
that you should ask your doctor as well
it's because cholesterol has a purpose
the purpose of cholesterol is to make
hormones it's a precursor to that it
also helps you make vitamin D it helps
you make bile to help you digest fats it
also helps the nervous system in the
brain and all the cells are lined with
cholesterol it helps make the stress
hormones
okay so 3,000 milligrams of cholesterol
that's equivalent to about a pound of
butter that's equivalent to about 300
strips of bacon or 14 eggs so what
happens when you cut your cholesterol
down as your body mix more okay if you
eat more your body makes less my
cholesterol right now is roughly about
about 150 160 okay it's pretty good and
I do about 3 to 4 eggs a day I do bacon
I do a lot of fats I do butter I'm not
saying you have to do that but I'm just
telling you that really what causes the
bad cholesterol is the refined
carbohydrates and I'm not saying that
fruit will do it or vegetables will do
it I'm talking about the sugars okay the
sugars I don't know if you knew that but
if you did know that that is the fact
your cholesterol your bad cholesterol
LDL and your triglycerides if you have a
problem with that that's coming from too
much sugar in the diet
it can also come from the refined
carbohydrates like the breads and stuff
is well pastas and cereals and things
like that if you don't believe me cut
those out for one month go back and get
a test it'll come down real nicely ok so
those are the two points I wanted to
make about cholesterol
your comments below and subscribe to my
channel and I will see you in the next
video
