hey guys I wanted to create a quick
video just to answer the question can I
consume a Coke Zero on keto alright well
let's talk about that here are the
ingredients carbonated water caramel
color aspartame acesulfame potassium
phosphorus 'add potassium benzoate
natural flavorings citric acid and
caffeine okay here's the problem
aspartame because aspartame promotes
insulin resistance okay that's what
we're trying to correct with a ketogenic
plan ask 14 has the potential to raise
sugar just as much as consuming regular
sugar okay so then the question should I
consume Coke Zero on keto the answer is
absolutely not hey guys I had a quick
question I'm thinking about doing a keto
summit in Washington do you see this
fall and the reason I want to do in the
fall that's my favorite time of the year
where the leaves are falling it's going
to be gorgeous in Washington DC but I
wanted to know if you would be
interested in coming out so this will
have a chance to meet you and cover the
entire subject of keto and in a minute
fasting so I haven't formulated all the
details yet but I just wanted to find
out if you'd be interested I put a link
down below let me know
