hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about why saturated fats are actually
healthy for you okay now this is one of
those things that everyone knows that
saturated fats are bad and they clog
your arteries you're gonna get a stroke
a heart attack so we're just kind of
cover a deeper aspect of that and I
first want to put a link down below and
you got to check this out there's a
40-year old study that compared
consuming saturated fats versus
consuming unsaturated fats in the form
of vegetable oils and apparently this
study was out there but it was not
broadly promoted and the result of the
study was quite shocking because it
showed that vegetable oils nearly
doubled the rates of heart attacks so
let me just kind of bring up your
awareness of certain types of saturated
fats do you have a caprylic acid okay
this is in coconut oil it's in dairy
nuts and breast milk okay this is
fantastic for the immune system its
antiviral it's good for acne
lauric acid there's two main sources one
is coconut oil and the other is breast
milk this is fantastic
as an antiviral it's really good for the
immune system then we have palmitic acid
this is the one that everyone says is
bad for you but it's a main structural
component of your cells it's in fish
it's a nuts it's in seeds it's and
animal products did you realize that 50%
of your cell membrane uses this type of
fat our bones require fatty acids for
calcium metabolism saturated fats our
hormonal precursors are the building
blocks to make hormones without these
saturated fats you wouldn't be able to
make any of the steroid hormones like
cortisol estrogen testosterone saturated
fats are very necessary for your immune
system okay then we have butyric acid
which is the main fatty acid that feeds
the cells of your colon so if you have
leaky gut if you have celiac if you have
digestive problems this would be the key
fat to help feed the cells it's in
butter and also your microbes can make
it from fiber that you consume from your
salad so there's a lot more data in
saturated fats in other videos that I'm
gonna put some links down below but the
point is that if
consuming high-quality organic grass-fed
type healthy fats they are not bad
they're only bad when you add the other
stuff with it the starches and the
sugars alright thanks for watching hey
if you haven't already subscribed press
the button below and I will keep you in
the know
hey that runs
