hi it's me again I wanted to create a
short video on tea tree oil it's
actually an amazing oil that does a lot
of things like for example you can get
rid of ants and insects around your
house by taking 20 drops putting in 1/4
of a cup of water in a spray bottle
spray it around and these ants will go
somewhere else it's quite safe non-toxic
so that's one great benefit also it's an
anti mold remedy spray it in your shower
on your basement stained Aleutians and
it just cleans up mold and mildew and
it's excellent for skin problems in the
scalp toenail fungus nail fungus
psoriasis any type of skin issue just
put two drops in a tablespoon of coconut
oil mix it up really good and rub it
into the skin and see if it can help you
also good for sinus and a neti pot so
you can check that out so go ahead give
it a shot and tell me what you think hi
guys hey listen I created a pretty
amazing evaluation quiz down below that
actually analyzes your symptoms to find
the cause the root cause of all of your
symptoms the most likely cause so take
the quiz now and we'll send you a report
