okay so today we're gonna talk about the
seven fasting myths okay so number one
fasting is not for everyone okay so I
disagree a version of fasting is good
for everyone but let's say for example
you're pregnant maybe you just do three
meals no snacks there's nothing wrong
with that okay that's kind of a mild
version of fasting for the average
American is just cut out the snacks
because they're so addicted to so many
frequent meals now a small child same
thing just don't do the snacks three
meals they're gonna do much better from
constantly grazing and constantly
snacking between meals okay especially
if they're eating healthy at the meal so
this is false information all right
number two not good for hypoglycemics
okay people with low blood sugar well it
is actually the exact thing you need to
do to correct low blood sugar because
when the sugar goes high insulin kicks
in if insulin is too high it'll push the
blood sugars down so hypoglycemia in
many cases is caused by excessive
amounts of insulin well there's two
things that reduce insulin one is
fasting the other is cutting down carbs
so when you give in to hypoglycemia by
consuming a carbohydrate you're gonna
feel better but you'll never correct it
you'll make it worse over time so
fasting is really good for hypoglycemic
especially if they do healthy Kido to
actually give the right nutrients and
also do it on a gradual method you're
not going to just jump in and then do
one meal a day you'll gradually go into
it so it's very very good for people
with low blood sugars number three it's
not good for hormones like for example
your thyroid or the adrenal well it
actually is good for your hormones
you're not starving your hormones of
nutrients when you're fasting you're
actually eating healthy and your body
goes into this interesting mode of
conserving nutrients okay so and also
proteins it starts to recycle nutrients
it starts to conserve nutrients and so
it's very good for hormonal health and
the endocrine system now if you had an
autoimmune disease like Hashimoto's for
example you have antibodies attacking
itself
seeing is one of the best things you can
do for that okay next one is well
fastening is starving so it's really bad
for you well that's false information
again starving is actually depriving
yourself of nutrients and you end up
with a lower state of health when you do
in a minute fasting you end up with a
higher level of health it's not
starvation because you're also eating in
between the fasting period okay number
five fasting makes you feel bad well it
doesn't have to make you feel bad if you
do it correctly the real key is what
you're eating when you're eating so
healthy ketosis very healthy
nutrient-dense and then let your body
fast if you add more fat it's easier to
fast now you're going to feel bad only
if you eat poorly and you're just eating
junk and you're not consuming the key
nutrients to allow your body to burn fat
like potassium and B vitamins from
nutritional yeast but the goal is to
convert you from sugar burning into fat
burning in which you can run comfortably
on and feel really good long term number
six
fasting is gonna ruin my metabolism not
true what ruins your metabolism is high
levels of insulin that's what gives you
that setpoint that you're not able to go
below that's what keeps you gaining more
and more and more because insulin is
kind of a switch in the presence of too
much insulin you're not going to
actually lose any weight it's the fat
storing hormone so it prevents you from
losing weight and so fasting lowers
insulin and it will improve your
metabolism greatly okay number seven
it's stressful on the body it's just the
reverse the body goes into this
interesting state of countering stress
and protecting the cells against stress
it actually has the ability to lower
oxidative stress when you're fasting
it's counterintuitive now you would
think if you would stop eating it would
be stressful on the body but it's just
the opposite when you do intrument of
fasting for a period of time and you eat
it's very very low stress in the body
and you're actually going to burn fat
which has a lot less waste than running
your body on sugar fuel all right there
you have it the seven fasting myths
so I hope you're coming to the keto
Health Summit coming up in October so I
want to quickly comment on what we're
gonna do that's different from other
conventions okay the problem with these
other conventions is they give you
information over a load okay it's so
much data that you're basically swimming
in a sea of information we're going to
do things very differently we're only
going to cover the most important things
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away
and number two I'm going to show you how
to increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October I would not want to give them
snacks I would just have three meals a
day so you can do a mild version of
fasting okay Wow
thought that I just put that there to
see if you would catch it and you did so
congratulations
