let's talk about the three key nutrient
deficiencies that are involved in stica
and if you took these three nutrients
the chances of you're getting better are
pretty darn high and then at the end I
want to show you two amazing stretches
that don't stretch the muscles per se
they stretch what's called fascia which
extends beyond the joints and these
stretches are amazing because what I
found is you can have scar tissue in
certain areas of the connective tissue
around this nerve from an old injury
like a on your tailbone or anything that
if you don't stretch the fascia uh
chances of you're getting better are
less than winning the lottery the satic
nerve is the longest and largest nerve
in the entire body it comes out of the
lower back it goes down through your
butox on the back part of your leg all
the way down to the foot you can get
paint anywhere on this nerve if you have
this problem uh a common test that they
do is they have you lie on your back and
they lift up the leg it's called a
straight leg razor and of course is
putting traction on this nerve that's
coming out of your lower back this means
that there's some type of pinching going
on um somewhere in that nerve now what I
don't like about the advice that medical
doctors give you about sakab is I don't
like to hear you're going to be on
medication the rest of your life but if
anyone tells you that they're not
telling the truth because there is so
much bias in this area unpublished
studies that show bad results with
sadaka and of course big Pharma will
only selectively show you the benefits
of drugs but here's the data with
surgery after one year there really is
no benefit of that surgery compared to
other treatments so if someone tells you
that surgery is the best option I would
take a step back look at the actual
research and you're going to find out
it's not always the best option I mean
if you absolutely need surgery yes but
there are complications for surgery one
is called failed back surgery syndrome
where the surgery doesn't work but now
you have pain it's an invasive procedure
I would only recommend it as the last
resort today we're going to share some
fascinating information relating to the
dis 90% of soda pain involves your disc
you also hear that 90% of the time
someone with Saka will pretty much
resolve their symptoms if they do
nothing within six weeks it's very
interesting to me that CA pain uh gets
worse during the winter months which
gives you a big clue with the first
nutritional deficiency I'm going to talk
about and that is a vitamin D deficiency
this whole concept of using like 600 to
800 I use or even 2,000 iuse is not
going to work if you have some type of
serious inflammation and so right off
the bat all the research that's using
low doses of Vitamin D is invalid the
second thing and this is really
interesting uh if you're taking vitamin
D on a weekly basis and not on a daily
basis you're not going to see consistent
results at all there's actually two
different systems of vitamin D one for
calcium and Bone and another one for
everything else and that everything else
dosage needs to be higher and it needs
to be taken daily so the first thing you
need to know about vitamin D is that the
dis has a lot of vitamin D receptors
because if they have metabolic syndrome
if they're a pre-diabetic unless they're
taking large amounts of vitamin D3 it's
not going to really penetrate and go
into the dis just think about what is
the number one symptom of a vitamin D
deficiency lower back pain why do you
think that is that's because the diss
need Vitamin D desperately and when you
don't have vitamin D everything kind of
falls apart vitamin D is the most potent
anti-inflammatory that exist it's
similar to prazone which acts as an
anti-inflammatory but vitamin D does a
similar thing but without the side
effects Vitamin D also has a function of
repair the nerves and as well as the
disc as well as the connective tissue as
well as the muscles so we got the
vertebrae here have the disc in between
the nerve another vertebrae right here
if there's any problem in this canal but
vitamin D is essential to support that
dis all right so vitamin D is the first
nutrient deficiency involved with sadaka
the second deficiency that's involved
with Saka is a magnesium deficiency so
if you have some type of arthritis or
what is called stenosis of that spinal
cord so all the extra calcium deposits
arthritis is controlled by magnesium now
this also applies to muscles as well
think about it like this calcium
controls the muscle Contracting
magnesium controls the muscle relaxing
so having enough magnesium is going to
be really important in keeping all the
muscles in a relaxed State another
fascinating thing about magnesium is
magnesium is necessary for for vitamin D
to work so vitamin D and magnesium are
like two PS in a pod the other
interesting thing about calcification or
calcium in the soft tissues involves
another vitamin called vitamin K2
vitamin K2 is all about keeping calcium
out of the arteries well guess what
magnesium is necessary for vitamin K2 to
work all of the processes in the body
that involve energy are dependent on
magnesium magnesium also has
anti-inflammatory properties decreases
uh adrenaline and cortisol the two
stress hormones and one last thing about
magnesium magnesium allows you to go to
sleep at night I want to wrap up with
the last deficiency B12 and the term for
it is called neuropathy vitamin B12 is
intimately involved with several aspects
of the nervous system you can have
numbness tingling burning type pain so
B12 also is anti-inflammatory and so
those are the three nutrients now the
question is How likely are you to have a
deficiency of all three of these it's
very common let's first start with
vitamin D most people don't get enough
sun and unless you're taking at least
10,000 IUS on a daily basis you're
probably going to be deficient if I had
sadaka I would take probably 20 to
30,000 IUS of vitamin D3 but of course
make sure you take it with the next
nutrient which is magnesium if you're
going to take a magnesium supplement for
soda I would take probably 800
milligrams some of the best foods for
magnesium would be sunflower seeds
pumpkin seeds chocolate try to get the
one without very much sugar almonds
spinach now the problem with spinach
almonds and chocolate is they're also
high in oxalates oxalates tend to form
as kidney stones but they can also cause
arthritic type symptoms but if you have
a little cheese with all three of those
you will have less oxalates you can also
get magnesium from leafy greens in
general there is also magnesium in bone
broth if you don't consume any
vegetables alcohol is one of the things
that will deplete your magnesium eating
refined sugars and starches can deplete
your magnesium now as far as B12 goes
that's really easy to get if you consume
red meat you can also get B12 from liver
you can also get B12 from any animal
products but not vegan foods like plants
you can't get B12 from that so if you
are a vegan you would need to take B12
you need a certain form of B12 you need
the the more natural version called
methyl cabola mean now that you
understand the three nutrients now I
want to roll right into these amazing
stretches save this video and do these
stretches until you commit them to
Memory and then do these every day until
your stica goes away this first stretch
is going to be involving you sitting on
a stool or a chair you're going to
position yourself like my person who's
demonstrating this so you have your left
leg out in front where your right leg is
bent and take your shoes off and if you
have your socks on you could easily
Glide your foot going backwards so
you're going to mimic the stretch that
you're seeing on this video right now
where you're creating this scissors like
action and you're stretching all the
fascia on your right hip and abdomen
area so in other words the cytic nerve
comes on the back part you're going to
be stretching the front part and this is
going to give a lot of slack and
relaxation and the back part of your leg
the butttock as well as in your lower
back okay we're going to do the other
side it's important to do both sides
because we want to create symmetry
you're going to find one side is usually
Tighter and you're going to probably
work more on that side than the other
side so go ahead and uh switch sides and
follow
along okay for the last exercise you're
going to be standing you're going to
hold on to something and you're going to
basically start with your left foot
you're going to bring your foot up in
your back and you're going to hold your
foot and you're going to stretch the
front side of your thigh go ahead and
follow along with this
stretch now let's do the opposite side
all right so now you have the
information about the three most
important nutrients to support the cytic
nerve as well as two very powerful mild
fascial stretches so combined both both
these together to say goodbye to your
stic nerve pain
