hey guys today we're gonna talk about
how many carbs are in popcorn now I'm
gonna let you know I love popcorn I used
to work at a theater actually about six
months ago no I'm just kidding when I
was 16 I was the guy that made the
popcorn and I could make some seriously
good popcorn I remember taking these
bags home like garbage bags full of
popcorn from my dad and myself we would
eat eat popcorn when watching TV at
night and just handfuls for hours just
consuming popcorn right a lot of salt at
that time we use peanut oil now of
course they use soy oil and hydrogenated
oils it's really really bad if you go to
the movie theater and the fake butter
and the whole thing but here's the
challenge one ounce a popcorn is 28
grams and it's two and a half cups it's
very light so that will give you 22
carbs if we - the fiber four grams so
that would equal 18 grams net carbs okay
so we always go with always - the fiber
this is the net carbs that you're gonna
operate off of and the goal is to keep
your carbs between 20 and 50 for the
whole day preferably below 20 so right
there that's gonna pretty much eat up
your entire carbohydrate requirement for
their whole day so it's not a lot of
volume but it's a lot of carbs for the
amount that you're consuming and the
glycemic index is between 55 and 89
depending on what type of popcorn you
use and what you put on it so it's
moderately high so I don't recommend it
unfortunately I'm sorry about that
because I know a lot of you love popcorn
maybe you could I don't know chew
something crunchy like pork rinds
something like that so unfortunately for
those people who love popcorn
it's not a good idea on a ketogenic
plant okay thanks for watching hey guys
I wanted to personally invite you to a
new Facebook group that I just started
called dr. Berg's keto and in a minute
fasting lab okay so I created this so we
can share our successful actions what
worked what didn't work your results so
I put a link down below so go ahead and
sign up and I'll see you inside
