today I want to talk about five
nutritional deficiencies
that can definitely cause depression
from a physical level I've been doing a
serious Deep dive into DNA and I'm
finding all sorts of fascinating things
in relationship to people becoming
susceptible to nutritional deficiencies
on top of having a fairly decent diet
and out of all the things that DNA can
definitely influence the mood is right
at the top of the list now I just want
to clarify something when you're looking
at a DNA test you're not looking at
levels of neurotransmitters or vitamins
or hormones things like that you're
looking at Gene variations or
alterations between people and there are
certain genes that can give you
susceptibility to having more of a
problem with a certain thing than
someone else and I'm talking about
vitamins that can affect
neurotransmitters so today I'm going to
talk about the five nutrients in
relationship to them being the most
common reason for depression and when I
get done with the list I don't recommend
taking all of these vitamins okay I just
recommend taking one at a time so that
way you really know which one is
involved in your mode now let's start
with number one it's B12 if you're
deficient in B12 you're not going to be
able to make serotonin now b12 is
involved with a lot of different things
in the body but I want to focus more on
your mood so B12 is absolutely necessary
essential for making the
neurotransmitter serotonin and there can
be several genes involved with why
you're not absorbing B12 or it could be
in the transfer of B12 but the point is
if you have a problem with this
genetically
but it's going to be really hard to
satisfy B12 now I'm assuming uh you're
consuming animal Meats okay I'm I'm
assuming that you're not a vegetarian or
a vegan because that could be the reason
why you're not getting B12 because B12
is in red meat it's in organ Meats it's
an animal protein the other reason is
that your stomach acid is not very
concentrated so you have like this weak
stomach acid where you don't have enough
acid and the way that you know you don't
have enough acid is that you actually
have acid reflux okay it's coming up
through that valve on the top of your
stomach if you have acid reflux
heartburn gerd then what you need to do
before you even take B12 and start
taking betaine hydrochloride okay and I
put a link down below of what video to
watch best source of B12 you have a
choice you can either do a
methylcobolamine or hydroxy B12 okay do
not take
this synthetic version of B12 called
cyanocobolamine now the second thing I
would try is folate okay folate and I'm
not talking about the synthetic version
folic acid I'm talking about folate if
you are deficient in folate okay and
there's many people who are I would say
30 to 40 percent of the population based
on their genetics they have this problem
with this very specific Gene called
MTHFR now normally folate is in dark
leafy green vegetables and to fix this
problem you don't want to start taking
folic acid in fact you want to make sure
you don't have an abundance of this
synthetic version in your supplements or
even in they put it in like an
enrichment for nutritional yeast you
want the unfortified version of
nutritional yeast but the nutrient that
you need to take is called a
methylfolate in fact it's even used by
doctors as a natural antidepressant
folate is involved with a lot of things
and if you're deficient you can have a
lot of problems you could be weak you
could be tired you could be lethargic
but you can also be depressed and you
might even be good to get a a supplement
that has both B12 and folate and take
those together so you'd want to get one
that has like the methylfolate and the
methylcobolamine I know I told you to
take these separately but
with these two especially if we're
talking about genetic issues um it's
probably a good idea to take those
together because they do work together
all right so you take these for a few
days see how you feel
and if you feel great then I wouldn't
even worry about going on to the next
three deficiencies okay I would just
focus on this right here and then now we
know that was your big problem and the
question is how long would you take
those well if you truly have a genetic
problem you would have to take those the
rest of your life let's say for example
your depression does not lift when you
take B12 or folate what would be the
next thing to take that would be vitamin
D3 vitamin D3 is called the happy
vitamin because it's you get it from
Sunshine right now there's other things
that you can get from the Sun that can
elevate your mood but vitamin D
definitely if you're deficient you're
going to likely be depressed in fact I
would venture to say that
great majority of people who are
depressed have very low vitamin D levels
so vitamin D is involved with so many
things the immune system inflammation
your blood sugars and the production of
not just serotonin but dopamine as well
and recently when I'm reviewing these
genetic reports and I'm looking at them
with various people
I would say like so far like 80 of them
have a problem with the vitamin D
receptor so either they're not
converting the inactive to the active
form of vitamin D very easily or they're
not able to absorb vitamin D very easily
so this simple solution is to start
taking vitamin D3 now how much I would
recommend taking about
20 000 IUS especially if you're
depressed now if you're really depressed
it might not be a bad idea to take 50
000 I use
once a week after you try vitamin D3 you
go on to number four thymine B1 now A
deficiency B1 can definitely make you
depressed but it can also make you have
anxiety and also
um highly irritated like you have no
patience
and you're about to fly off the handle
and you have a lot of nervous energy and
tension that you can't release and the
most common reason for a B1 deficiency
is
the over consumption of refined
carbohydrates and sugars okay yeah so
that's the breads pasta cereal crackers
biscuits waffles pancakes that type of
things if you start taking B1 probably
take three to four minutes maybe five
and you will see a change okay it's
going to lift you up it's going to make
you feel better
um then you know you definitely need to
change your diet but B1 can definitely
affect your mood mainly for anxiety but
definitely for depression as well the
last one is zinc zinc is involved in
many many different biochemical
reactions but if you're deficient in
zinc which a lot of depressed people are
you're going to have a very hard time
making neurotransmitters I think the
reason why people might be deficient in
zinc could be a genetic problem it can
also be a diet issue they are a
vegetarian or vegan because zinc is in
red meat and animal products and also
shellfish and seafood those are the five
nutrients that I would recommend taking
one by one excluding the first two take
them together if you have depression and
anxiety now there are many other things
you can do to also improve your mood
probiotics is a really big one so get a
good probiotic because your microbes
make neurotransmitters as well and
whatever's going on as an imbalance down
into your gut is going to affect you up
here
especially if you had antibiotics okay
there's so many people who get depressed
after about of antibiotics and they stay
depressed because they never replenish
the microbes so anytime you ever take an
antibiotic also take a probiotic at the
same time the next thing is fasting
start getting on an intermittent fasting
program I would say like a pattern of um
18 hours of fasting and six hour eating
window would be perfect to help bring up
your mood when you fast you fix your
brain you fix a lot of things in the
body and definitely your mood will go up
and of course I'm going to recommend
combining that with keto both the
ketogenic diet and fastened together
will usually fix a depression and then
of course being out in the sun can
actually increase your mood as well as
regular exercise just to keep the stress
off the body and stimulate certain
genetics that can actually elevate your
mood and so if I depression I would want
to know all of the key factors involved
in getting rid of it and the next most
important video would be this one right
here you should check it out
