um my name is Gloria Patterson and I
came to Dr Burg after after um finding
his advertisement on the internet and um
finding that he was within my area I
read some information and I thought it
was worthwhile to come in for
consultation well from the internet what
I learned was that there are four
different body types and I took the quiz
and um really identified with one of the
body types and I wanted to find out if
there was something that I could do that
was um more healthy rather than having
to use medication in order to correct
some of the issues that I'm having and
um so it was in line with the manner in
which I want to learn to live a healthy
life so I thought I would come in my
first evaluation was very indepth um I
spent time with Dr Burke and talked
about some of the issues that I was
having um he asked me a lot excuse me he
asked me questions related to my dietary
intake now and um some of the things I
was doing right some things I was doing
wrong some because of the condition that
I have and so I thought it was very
worthwhile and something that really was
in line with what I wanted to
do my hormones are just really all over
the place right now um and I have known
about the problem for a couple of years
I am
um I guess
menopausal and because of that I have
been experiencing hot flashes sugar
Cravings salt Cravings um and very low
energy level actually no energy at all
and um the brain fog and the memory
lapses the hair shedding the changes in
skin and stuff like that and you know um
I'm a vain person and I wanted to be
able to get back to what I believe used
to be Peak for me and um so while I'm
being healthy I still can have um those
things that I think are important for me
to feel
comfortable um very skeptical you know
it's like okay so you see this
advertisement on the Internet is another
um scam and so you
know if it's one of those things well
I'm cautiously
optimistic and um in talking with Dr
Burke and actually trying the program
for for a week and noticing yes I was
beginning to feel better in just a
week's time and so I thought well okay
so this is something that's really
worthwhile and I'm getting healthy which
is a positive for me um
the evaluations are strange to me but at
the same
time um you know checking my stress
level you
know through my ear
Lo but finding that the results are
things that really resonate with me so
um while they seem strange to me they're
very much on point I believe
um I do believe that the first
consultation was very very valuable we
spent probably an hour hour and a half
um doing some testing talking about the
issues um and to learn about me and
um at the same time it reinforced that
there were things that I was doing right
before I came in and that those were
things that it would be easy for me to
continue um I didn't find that the plan
is very very
farfetched um because I had already had
somewhat of a mindset to do some of the
things already so it was easier for me
to kind of
adapt um and um be consistent with
following through I've had some a
failure or two here and there but at the
same time it's like okay so you falling
down pick yourself up and continue on
because the more I see the benefits the
more I'm apt to say okay so I'm not
going to do that again
