you know if you look at Alzheimer's and
you look up the group cause of it it's
always unknown it could be genetics
we're still researching blah blah blah
well there's a new study that shows that
length d/dt to Alzheimer's I mean it's a
significant correlation here so that's
fascinating I use a principle in my
office that seems to work and that is
that you always want to look for the
obvious thing and it's usually the
obvious thing that that it's like one of
those oh of course duh why didn't I
think of that when you're trying to find
the root cause don't look for something
abstract some genetic disorder some
defect in our DNA
no it's the obvious thing and it what's
obvious is that our our environment is
very toxic concluded DDT is linked to
Alzheimer's the question is DDT was
banned in 1972 why is it now showing up
in our brains well you might say well
it's probably in the soil yeah that's
probably in the soil it's probably
finally leaching out in our fat cells
but there's some couple other things as
well that you need to know we're able to
still sell DDT to third-world countries
like Chile Mexico and there's very high
levels of the UT and those children as
well so we bought we sell it to third
world countries but we can't use it in
America and then we by their fruits in
the winter and we get it that way
so here's just another case to eat
organic foods yeah you can wash it off
but it's hard to wash off the pesticides
and peaches and strawberries and some of
these other broccoli you know things
like that
now there's another study I want to I
want to talk about from the University
of California Davis this is a recent
study and the resources it resources
researchers have found that the average
exposure to children exceeded benchmark
levels for arsenic lead dde and I want
to explain what dde is dde is dd
he in the body for a long time it breaks
down so they found that these exceeded
the benchmark cancer levels for for
another thing called chlorinating that's
like a termite in killer pesticide that
they banned way back and I don't know
how that's showing up in ours and our
soils but the point is this these
chemicals are in an environment and
unless you do organic food you are being
exposed it's going into our kids food
it's going into our body it's going to
be a time bomb with cancer Alzheimer's
it affects your brain I really believe
that a lot of these weird disorders and
weird diseases are the obvious exposure
to these chemicals but you might say
well dr. burger that's true why wouldn't
the FDA or the EPA basically protect us
or make us aware of this well if you go
down to the EPA website and under
endocrine disrupter which is DDT as an
endocrine disrupter and no kinder
shopper disrupter subcommittee
membership list and scroll down you will
find Dow Chemical company Monsanto soar
genta frito-lay all these different
companies that are on the panel that's
supposed to protect us so it's really a
conflict of interest that's why you
haven't heard about it but it is a time
bomb waiting and waiting to happen and
people getting diseases and they're
being treated and the symptoms so you
really need to be aware of this spread
the word and I mean it's just it's just
sickening to know that it's even in our
kids bodies as well but it's in our
bodies it's it gets stored in the fat
cells so if you or any loved one has
Alzheimer's or starting to affect their
memory put them on a detox start to
clean the stuff out make sure they're
consuming foods that pull out the
pesticides like chemical like Cruise's
cruciferous vegetables especially the
kale okay so that's just a tip for these
chemicals in an environment and I will
see you in the next video
