you know the worst thing you could do to
a person is take away their peanuts okay
and I'm not going to do that uh I'm just
going to talk about what type of peanuts
you should focus more on because if you
end up buying the wrong type of peanuts
or peanut butter you may find that uh
your health is going to suffer there's
this one ingredient in 80% of all peanut
butter you don't want it in your body
and if you eat the right type of peanut
butter or peanuts uh I don't think
there's going to be a lot of health
issues but I recently started the
carnivore diet just to test it out for a
couple weeks from the elimination of the
nuts my bloating went away so I'm not
going back to peanuts you can if it
doesn't bloat you um but I have also
gone back to vegetables as well so my
diet right now is a combination it's
like 50% carnivore and 50% plant-based
because I do like my salads but let's
talk about the difference between
conventional peanut butter or peanuts
now when you're consuming conventional
peanuts um unfortunately peanuts are
probably one of the most heavily sprayed
with pesticides and
insecticides and especially fungicides
out of many different things that you
might eat a peanut is not an actual nut
it's a legume and so when they spray it
gets into soil it gets down into where
the peanut is and this peanut shell is
very very thin unlike a walnut which has
a hard shell you really need to do
Organic peanuts or peanut butter okay
that's number one there's also an
herbicide called glyphosate which can
act like an antibiotic uh it's in a lot
of different GMO foods and that's been
known to be in peanuts um simply because
they rotate the crops uh from a GMO food
to a peanut back and forth I think it's
cotton seed or it could be canola I'm
not 100% sure the other thing is you
must read the label because if it says
hydrogenated anything uh don't consume
that now you maybe you've heard of
partially hydrogenated which gave you
all these trans fats
well what's the difference between
hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated
really I think from my own Viewpoint
it's very very similar even though they
say that hydrogenate doesn't have the
trans fats you're you're basically using
the same process of adding hydrogens
under high heat and then it becomes
partially hydrogenated and then they
leave it in longer and then becomes
fully hydrogenated and so you want to
avoid anything that says hydrogenated or
partially hydrogenated also they sneak
in vegetable oils which are not
vegetable oils they're seed oils they
put this in the peanut butter so you
just don't want to even have that in
your body the other thing that slips in
there is the sugar sometimes family
members will buy peanut butter right and
I'll start consuming it on something I'm
like wow this is really good and I'm
like up let me read the label this is
why it's so good because it has sugar in
it but there's one more ingredient
that's a carcinogen it can increase the
risk of certain cancers by
46% and that ingredient is
monoglycerides there's a French study
that links it to cancer so we don't want
that in our diets and they use it just
to kind of break things up so you don't
have that layer of oil at the top so if
you find a peanut butter that has all of
those
factors I would upgrade to a better
quality peanut butter okay peanuts and
salt Pretty Natural if we want to
improve it more we want Organic peanuts
and sea salt if we want to improve it
even a little bit more I would recommend
Valencia Organic peanuts they're the
ones that have the least amount of
potential um afot toxin which is a a
toxin from certain molds that can grow
on peanuts and which is very very
damaging to the liver and uh they use
sea salt which is better than regular
table salt sometimes it's really hard to
uh not overdo it with peanuts or peanut
butter I know if I sit down and start
eating peanuts I will pretty much eat
the whole bag and I can I feel this like
heavy feeling underneath my R rib cage
that's my gallbladder to digest uh these
fats one more point about peanuts and
peanut butter if you can have them with
the meal that's better than a snack
especially if you're snacking late at
night because anything that you consume
of any significance as far as calories
can Spike the insulin and if you're into
intermittent fasting uh nuts are a
dangerous item to have around especially
late at night now since we're on the
topic of nuts if you have not seen my
video on walnuts you might want to check
that out I put it up right here
