hi guys in this video we're gonna answer
the question will stevia knock you out
of ketosis okay there's some mixed
reviews out there on the internet on the
interwebs and so on my facebook close
group I presented a little experiment
for everyone to do and this is the
results we wanted to check both blood
sugars and ketones before and after
consuming like a packet of stevia
without the molted extra because we
wanted a Piercy view without the added
sugar or some people use the liquid
stevia this is not a standardized test
it gives us a just a rough idea but I
wanted to see generally what kind of
results we would get okay so this is
what we found with blood sugars 63% of
the participants had an increase of
blood sugar by three points however it
was still within the normal range okay
it was below 100 and so this is
insignificant even though it was a
slight spike okay and the rest of the
participants had a lowering of blood
sugars by eight points interesting so it
was kind of a cancel itself out and then
when we checked ketones 63% of the
participants had a decrease in ketones
by 0.1 so they went from let's say 0.5
to a point for someone to 0.3 to 0.1 so
again insignificant okay the rest had an
increase of key talents by 0.2 so what
does this tell us it's pretty much the
mixed bag some people increase their
blood sugar some people decrease some
people increase the ketones some people
decrease their ketones but it still was
insignificant
so should you worry about consuming
stevia when you're doing a keto plan is
it going to be a problem
the answer is no it's not going to be
significant it may increase things
slightly or decrease things slightly but
nothing to worry about just make sure if
you consume stevia it does not have the
added malted Eckstrom all right thanks
for watching
hey you know what I just want to say
something only 30% of the people that
watching this video actually make it
this far and you did so I really
appreciate you thank you so much
