hi guys Dr Burke here let's talk about
adrenal stress and the diabetes
connection yeah you can have get
diabetes from your adrenal gland so this
goes beyond just your diet and sugar and
it has a lot to do with stress so the
main stress hormone is cortisol cortisol
is a hormone made by these little
adrenal glands this is what it looks
like so adrenal means add on top of
renal kidney you got two of them the
right here okay so that's what the
adrenal glands are they're on top of the
kitty they're a stress gland and one of
the hormones that it makes is cortisol
cortisol is a hormone that creates a
catabolic effect now what does catabolic
mean catabolic has to do with protein
breakdown the other hormone that does
the opposite of this is called anabolic
so bodybuilders for example would get
injected with a steroid called anabolic
hormones to build up their muscle mass
well catabolic does the opposite and it
breaks down your protein making your
muscles weak flabby uh and it goes after
the thigh muscles and the butt muscles
so you see these people with the stick
legs and a big trunk right here because
it's converted to Fat eventually but
first thing this protein is converted to
ammonia and carbon skeletons here's
another word carbon skeletons what is
that if you ever take chemistry and look
at the different orientations of the
elements you'll see these little seeds
in the in the in the mid part these are
carbon
atoms and uh uh basically it's like a
the foundation of of a lot of different
things even like the tree out there is
made with carbon atoms the plants are
made with carbon atoms I had a
hydroponic uh Garden in my basement and
I was just amazed because you're growing
these plants in these rocks with this
fluid I mean just fluid how can this
like I it's like 12 x 12 this huge room
filled with tomato plants like where
does that come from well the plants are
extracting it from the CO2 the carbon
dioxide carbon dioxide from the air and
forming these plants the same thing with
the tree you think the trees are getting
their Mass from the ground not
necessarily they get them from the air
as well so it's just it's fascinating uh
so in in the fact with um with cortisol
we have a catabolic effect of the
protein breaking down into ammonia and
carbon skeleton
and then this is converted into glucose
thereby raising your insulin so now we
got this Spike of insulin which then
messes up you know with it creates
insulin resistance or pre-diabetic or
actual diabetes
itself so um so here's a situation where
you're you're eating good but you're
still under stress and you get diabetes
or you're trying to get rid of your
insulin problems right or trying to lose
weight it's the stress so stress is one
big huge factor that I emphasize you
know dealing with it probably more than
most but I see this a lot you know
people gain weight after a stress event
pregnancy years of not sleeping uh so
what I'm going to do next is I'm going
to create a little uh link down below so
you can click down there to see what to
do about the adrenals okay hey guys
thank you so much for watching I really
appreciate it please click the share
button below and I will see you in the
next video
