let's talk about the early warning signs
of colon cancer you absolutely do not
want to ignore so when I give you these
six warning signs just realize these are
indicators they're not meant to diagnose
you indicators are symptoms that there
is a situation but it doesn't tell you
what it is unless you look at all the
information but here's the thing 50% of
the time there is no early warning signs
so it is important not to ignore these
signs but to understand them and and pay
attention to them now I do want to
mention pops little mini tumors that can
grow in your uh colon and uh a lot of
times people think that if you have Pops
that means you have cancer no it could
be a benign little tiny tumor that does
not grow does not turn into cancer in
fact 80% of the time there's only a very
very tiny risk between 0% to 2% risk of
getting cancer there are various risk
factors that people talk about about you
know like smoking and drinking and junk
food and obesity and H pylori that's the
microb that tends to live in the stomach
but it can travel different places and
then there's this topic of red meat or
processed meat that you may have heard
of they always tend to talk about that
there was a group that concluded that
it's a probable carcinogen okay but the
data and the evidence is pretty weak
especially since this new report came
out in jamama
which was a bigger evaluation of the
data on red meat and processed meat and
they found out if you actually include
carbohydrates into the equation there's
no association between red meat or even
processed meat and cancer and I'm going
to put that link down below I hope you
read it because there's been this
massive push to make meet the villain
when in fact um that may not be true
there's a huge difference between
different types of red meat right you
have grass fed grass-finished meat
versus grain-fed meat did they evaluate
those two no they lumped everything in
together and their evidence was based on
observational studies using questioners
and they ignored a lot of the data into
this evaluation and from my viewpoint my
opinion uh I do not think that red meat
puts people at risk for cancer now what
about genetics well yeah there's a
genetic component but it's only 5%
epigenetics your lifestyle are senior
and what you do what you eat your
environment can control your genes and
then that leads us to this microbiome
being out of balance 80% of your immune
system is these microbes in your gut
your immune system is what protects you
against cancer I mean look at another
thing antibiotics in one report it was
like it increased your risk by 45% so
anything that can alter your microbiome
in a negative way can put you at risk so
you want to look at what causes
inflammation or a gut right what can
that be well you have gluten you have
certain foods seed oils all these things
can create inflammation in your gut and
then that can create a Cascade and
create alteration in this microbiome but
the microbiome can keep viruses in check
so and I'm going to get to this but when
you eat food you're really eating for
two okay your own cells and your
microbiome okay so what are the early
warning signs that could potentially
indicate colon cancer number one blood
in the stool okay that's number one but
if there's blood in the stool deeper in
your digestive tract by the time it gets
out it's no longer going to be red it'll
be black number two anemia okay you're
anemic yet there's no reason to be
anemic that could be a potential
indicator number three the shape of the
stool is thinner because there's
obviously some cancer obstructing the
colon uh altering the shape of your
stool number four you have constipation
that seems to be getting worse why would
that be because there's an obstruction
in your colon number five abdominal pain
why would you have that well because
there's a certain Mass that's growing in
your colon and it's pushing on nerve
endings number six a sudden cause of
weight loss or a loss of appetite so
again these six indicators or Clues are
just indicators that doesn't mean you
have a problem and you you you don't
want to treat them as a problem you want
to find out what's behind the problem
you know the doctor comes in with
authority and says you have this period
of time to live and it's interesting how
people tend to live that particular time
you're in a state of confusion
everyone's telling you to do this or do
that and what do you do especially um
based on um this particular person who
should have been dead six years ago
because he had a stage for 4 cancer and
the prognosis of stage four cancer is
like weeks to months he should have been
dead six years ago he's still alive and
it' be very important to study what he
did but we're going to talk about how to
potentially avoid cancer okay what are
some things you can do as far as
antibiotics avoid those if you possibly
can um and if you have to take
antibiotics um definitely fortify with a
good probiotic I think intermittent
fasting and periodic prolong fasting is
essential why because it's going to
clear out the colon you allow your colon
to have a chance to regenerate heal and
not be so stressed 24/7 I think the
cruciferous vegetables would be
something to look at and consume not
every day but maybe a few times a week
uh that would be like kale broccoli
brussels sprouts cabbage now if I eat
broccoli it tears my gut up so any of
these cruciferous vegetables that you
eat that you bloat don't eat them I can
do cabbage and arugula very easily and
then when you ferment it you get all
this probiotic now remember when I
talked about inactivity well activity as
an exercise is probably one of the most
potent things you can do to avoid cancer
why because you're strengthening your
mitochondria and all cancer originates
from a dysfunctional mitochondria so by
exercising you actually generate more
mitochondria and you actually strengthen
the mitochondria things like garlic
thyme Sage different spices I think you
should start putting those on your meat
or your salad you want to avoid certain
things that create inflammation like
gluten and Grains and Seed oils and junk
foods and also one point about
inflammation is cancer tends to grow
into areas of inflammation now I think
there's a lot more to be uh learned
about the microbiome and if you have not
seen this video right here I think
you'll enjoy
it
