so how do you stop this pre-diabetic
State going into diabetes Well it's not
that hard once you understand the
mechanism there's something that happens
before pre-diabetes that you need to
know about and that is a condition
called insulin resistance insulin
resistance is a condition where your
body is putting up resistance against
too much insulin because there are too
many carbs in the diet to understand
this all you have to do is understand
what normal blood sugar really means
like how much sugar do you have in your
body to produce a normal sugar level if
we just take a look at normal sugar
being 80 milligram per deciliter it's
really only a tiny bit it's like one
teaspoon for all of your blood you have
about a gallon and a half to maybe even
up to two gallons of blood in your body
at any one time and there's only one
little teaspoon that would make your
blood sugars 80 Mig per deciliter so how
could it be that your consumption of
sugar could be so high like an average
person has at least 31 tspoons of sugar
every single day how could you have
normal blood sugars well it's because of
the insulin resistance the insulin
resistance is created to protect you
against the toxicity of glucose and the
term for that is glucotoxicity so too
much glucose to the body is poisonous so
the body has to protect that by shutting
down the insulin uh receptors because
insulin regulates glucose insulin allows
glucose to be absorbed so if we can shut
down those receptors we can decrease the
amount of sugar that kind of goes into
the cells and so if someone has insulin
resistance which a lot of people do all
that means is you're eating too many
carbs and your body's trying to protect
itself against uh too much sugar think
about this if you were to talk to me
right now and I had earplugs right you
wouldd shout because I'm like ignoring
you same thing happens with insulin
resistance it's like these little
earplugs in The receptors for insulin
now the pancreas actually has to shout
and its communication is going to be
insulin because hormones are
communication particles so the pancreas
is shouting very loud to penetrate these
little earplugs that are stuck in The
receptors for insulin and that's just
another way of looking at insulin
resistance so what we have with insulin
resistance is this massive amount of
insulin in the blood but it's not kind
of getting through deep into the cells
so in reality you have a efficiency of
insulin on one part of the body and you
have an excess amount of insulin on the
other part of the body which is outside
the cell in the blood but this is never
tested you don't go to the doctor and
have your insulin tested rarely does it
ever get tested what they test is your
blood sugar so if they don't check the
insulin they're going to miss it because
this insulin resistance will keep your
blood sugar levels looking normal for a
period of time until you hit
pre-diabetes
and what's happening is all this extra
production of insulin is grabbing Up the
sugar and pulling it out of the blood as
fast as it can and it's working hard the
pancreas is working over time and so
here you are having insulin resistance
eating a lot of carbs having normal
blood glucose for 10 to 15 years and of
course you have a lot of symptoms from
that but it doesn't show up as diabetes
or pre-diabetes yet until a certain
point where your pancreas is like you
know what I'm tired I I can't keep doing
this eventually it starts to become
tired I'm talking about the beta cells
that make insulin and they start to not
work that well and now they output a
little bit less insulin okay and now the
blood sugar is going to start going
higher because it has nothing to push it
down because insulin's purpose is to
push blood sugar down and take the sugar
out of the blood so when the blood sugar
can't be taken out your blood sugar
levels start to rise and so when you
start to notice that your blood glucose
levels start getting like between like
100 and 125 and your A1C starts going up
above
5.7% to
6.4% now we're starting to get into the
almost the diabetic situation it's
called pre-diabetes and then with just a
little bit of time and not changing the
diet you end up a diabetic and this is
just uh more damage to the pancreas okay
so now the pancreas can't output very
much insulin anymore and so there's no
control of the blood sugar so the blood
sugars go higher and higher and higher
and higher and so diabetes is diagnosed
as a blood sugar that's over 126
milligram per de or your A1C being
higher than uh
6.5% but at this point you still have
insulin resistance and you have high
blood glucose so you can imagine you
have a situation because um you have a
major cellular deficiency of insulin uh
but then you have all this sugar outside
in the blood and that's going to act as
rust it's just going to start really
messing with you and so if you haven't
already had these symptoms like getting
up at night having to urinate frequently
brain fog getting tired after you eat
having an appetite that you just have to
eat more frequently you can't go for a
period of time without eating craving
for carbohydrates maybe some tingling in
your feet or the hands a loss of vision
because the blood glucose levels affect
the eyes uh and the kidneys and this is
why you might have urination issues but
it's definitely going to start affecting
your liver your liver is going to be
fatty and the way that you know your
liver is fatty is the spillover of fat
in the visceral around the organs in
your belly if you look down right now
and you can't see your feet because your
belly's sticking out you have a fatty Li
so both belly fat and F liver are two
other symptoms that you're going to have
so you go to the doctor you're diagnosed
and they start to to control and manage
your blood sugars okay with
medications um now the question is do
they look at the dietary consumption of
glucose and sugar and refined carbs no
might go to a dietitian that might tell
you to get rid of refined carbs but not
the total carbs or sugars that's not add
dress which is fascinating instead we
get on a medication that tends to manage
our blood sugars more so we take more
medication and then we're concerned if
the blood sugar go too low and then
you're given these little glucose
tablets are told to eat candy to keep
your blood sugars higher because the
side effect from the medication causes
it to be lower insane why don't we just
fix the diet I mean I don't understand
that's so obvious to me cut the carbs
out of the diet so step one is to
replace the carbs with fat and protein
that's number one that is instantly
going to take the pressure off the
pancreas because that little beta cell
that has to pump out so much insulin is
triggered by carbs right so if you just
don't eat carbs you give it a chance to
rest also don't eat so frequently do an
intermittent fasting program if you just
combine those two actions for a period
of 3 days it's going to get really easy
your appetite's going to go away you're
going to start feeling better right off
the bat and uh you'll produce U some
pancreatic relief and your blood sugars
probably come down and the need for that
medication will go down so you have to
get with your doctor to make the
adjustments but just think about this
you're going to live longer if you take
less of those medications just because
your blood sugar level is normalized
there's no study that shows that you're
going to live longer or have necessarily
fewer problems because where is that
blood sugar going um if you take the
medication is it just evaporating no
it's just moving from one area the blood
to area of the body like your liver or
other parts of your tissues that's what
it's doing
it's not correcting anything it's just
managing the sugars the other thing that
you should probably focus on too is the
high quality uh antioxidant foods like
low starch vegetables because those
antioxidants will at least at a bare
minimum help protect against the
collateral damage of all that sugar so
even though you're diabetic you can at
least minimize the complications and the
side effects which I already mentioned
just by eating healthier even if you
didn't change the amount of sugar in
your diet and even if you still had
diabetes here's the other thing you need
to know when you have high levels of
glucose in the blood and you have
insulin resistance you're going to waste
a lot of nutrients through the urine B1
chromium potassium magnesium vitamin d
and vitamin C and others too and zinc
you're going to be deficient in these
nutrients the very things that actually
help protect you against developing
insulin resistance and diabetes are
going to be gone so you lost these
protective factors so if you're a
diabetic or pre-diabetic or you have
insulin resistance it's very important
to start taking these supplements
minerals you can take them as
electrolytes with some trace minerals
and then the B vitamins you know get
your vitamin C from either supplement
make sure it's from food or just eat
more vegetables to get your vitamin C or
sauerkraut or lemons bell peppers
vitamin D you can get it from the Sun or
supplement very important this will
quickly start to turn things around for
you and put you in good shape and stop
pre-diabetes from getting worse and
turning into diabetes the last thing I
want to mention is exercise exercise can
actually burn off a lot of the sugar it
can actually protect the mitochondria
from being damaged so I would definitely
add the exercise into this mix so you
could really turn things around and help
your blood sugar a lot better there's a
lot of things that you can also do in
addition I have a lot of videos on that
but at least I wanted to give you the
basics on what you need to do if you
have diabetes or pre-diabetes and you
want to prevent it from getting
worse now because of the censoring and
the suppressing of the algorithms on
YouTube it's becoming more difficult to
find my content and there's a lot of
content that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other
side
