hey guys dr. Berg here in this video I
want to talk about vitamin D
deficiencies and specifically when you
go get a test you want to make sure that
you always have them assess not just the
inactive version of vitamin D but the
active version of vitamin D there's two
types and when you go to the doc or you
go to the lab to get tested rarely do
they assess the active type of vitamin D
the inactive type is the most commonly
one assessed and that's called 25
hydroxy vitamin vitamin D the active is
125 dihydroxy vitamin D okay just make
notes of those words and just present
that to your practitioner when you get
when you want to get testing because
there's several situations that can
occur if you have low in active vitamin
D but high active vitamin D okay because
a lot of things can influence this for
example if you have low in active and
low active that could be just because
you're not consuming about it maybe in
your diet which is mainly mainly animal
products or if you're vegan it come from
russians but it also comes from sun so
let's say you how get no Sun well it's
going to be low right because vitamin D
is a fat file vitamin it gets stored in
the body for a period of time but you
could eventually become depleted or
let's say for example your gall bladder
is missing or you have a gall bladder
problem and you don't have enough file
because your bile deficient now the
consequence of not having a gall bladder
or you just don't concentrate the bile
so thereby you don't you can't even
digest the B vitamin D because it's a
fat soluble vitamin so you're always
becoming deficient because of that or
let's say another scenario where you
have gastric bypass surgery well this is
another situation where you can have low
vitamin D because the comp compromised
digestive system something's missing
another situation is the parathyroid the
parathyroid controls vitamin D okay it
actually activates an enzyme to convert
the inactive the active
so most problems with the parathyroid
specially a tumor in the crate thyroid
you have a lot of that hormone coming
out creating this conversion all the
time so they have high levels of calcium
and very high levels of active vitamin D
but very low inactive because it's being
converted because the parathyroid gland
triggers an enzyme to make this
conversion so with the parathyroid
problem you'll have low inactive but
you'll have high active so if you don't
know that and they only test this one
version you start consuming this vitamin
D and you don't really need it we need
to fix the parathyroid so a lot of
things will influence these tests a
kidney function liver function if you're
taking acid blockers for GERD or
heartburn taking medication diuretics
steroids adrenal stress autoimmune - see
he's all these things influence your
vitamin D levels so here's the summary
basically always check your inactive and
your active so you can compare and look
at the big picture okay thanks for
watching
