okay so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know will protein
bump me out of ketosis okay could there
concern if I eat too much protein am I
gonna be in ketosis well let's just take
a look at this book right here guidance
physiology page 830 it says other
factors that stimulate insulin secretion
amino acids in addition to excess
glucose stimulating insulin secretion
many of the amino acids have a similar
effect amino acids administered in the
absence of a rise in blood glucose cause
only a small increase in insulin
secretion
however when administered at the same
time that the blood glucose
concentration is elevated the glucose
induced secretion of insulin may be as
much as doubled so the behavior of
protein in a low carbohydrate
environment is acts very very
differently so if you want to know what
that means it's roughly 0.7 grams per
kilogram of lean body mass so for myself
I need about 58 grams of protein per day
okay
so that's somewhere between 5 to 7
ounces depending on the type of protein
you consume per meal but I wanted to
mention this one point about the purpose
of protein sometimes people think it's a
backup fuel source it's not when you go
in a fast even a faster like 2 days or
even 3 days your muscles aren't there to
act as a backup fuel you're not going to
create atrophy of your muscles ok the
purpose of protein is to replace body
tissue parts so it's not going to be
acting primarily as a fuel reserve ok it
can turn protein into glucose but that's
going to be mainly dietary protein so
the two things you want to be concerned
with is making sure that you don't
consume excessive protein okay too much
because that can actually spike insulin
and create other issues and number 2
adding carbs with your protein not good
but it's a very common thing for the
average person to do especially if
they're on the sad diet alright thanks
for watching so we've been getting a lot
of success stories but I don't have your
success story yet so click the
link down below and upload you before
and after I want to actually hear about
your success story I want to see your
before and afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
