hi guys Dr Berg here in this video I
want to talk about the importance of
potassium with preserving muscle mass
and reducing body fat okay here's the
facts every gram of protein needs 2.6
mil equivalents of
potassium that means without enough
potassium you can't hold protein or
amino acids in your body and that's one
of the reasons why people get atrophy
especially being a diabetic diabetics
have insulin resistance and when you
have insulin resistance you cannot
absorb pottassium very much anymore so
there bar there goes your muscle protein
there goes amino acids so potassium is a
very important mineral in preserving the
muscle mass and the density and
preventing atrophy but also each glucose
molecule needs one potassium ion now
we've been talking about in other videos
about reducing glucose but we do need
some storage of glucose in a form called
glycogen to help you uh quick energy
between meals and things like that but
you're not going to get it from eating
sugar you're going to get it just from
eating any foods your body will convert
enough glycogen to storage if you need
it and a certain portion of the brain
runs on glucose despite how many ketones
you use but your body's making it the
liver is making it but you need
potassium to store this sugar as
glycogen glycogen is stored sugar if you
don't have enough potassium guess what
you're not going to store the sugar and
guess what you're going to store more
body fat so potassium actually helps
people lose weight and preserves your
muscle all right I just wanted to bring
up this point um and the other point is
that you need a lot of potassium you
probably already know this but you need
about 4700 and that's not even a
stressed out body if you have if you're
stressed and you have rheumato arthritis
and you have a lot of other body
problems and you're diabetic you
probably need 5 to 6,000 milligrams so
try to get it from vegetables you
enhance it from potassium citrate and
other minerals but uh you need about 7
to 10 cups of vegetables to get at least
4,000 milligrams of potassium every
single day all right go ahead and do
that and put your comments below you I
just wanted to take a moment out to
thank you for your amazing feedback that
you guys are giving me it's just
mind-blowing the success is the wins I
created a link down below so you can
actually type out your full success
story and if you have a before and after
with weight loss that would be awesome
and if you don't have a success with
weight but other things just put an
image of yourself and your personal
success story and I would love to read
it and also share it with others so I
want to just thank you in advance for
doing that but there's a link down below
fill it out and I can't wait to read it
