I want to talk about castro oil and what
it can do for your face it's definitely
Nature's natural Botox it's really stood
the test of time it's been around for
thousands of years Egyptians used it the
Romans used it many other civilizations
used it for certain healing properties
most importantly should we be concerned
about the toxin rice and and castor oil
it's actually 6,000 times more poisonous
than cyanide this compound is 12,000
times more poisonous than battlesnake
Venom let's Dive Right In and talk about
castor oil it can give your skin that
soft glowing elastic and firm look
whether you have these little fine
wrinkles or bigger wrinkles or dry skin
you need to use castor oil the main
phytochemical that's behind all these
amazing effects is called rolic acid
it's a deep penetrating moisturizer kind
of traps the water in there and it keeps
you super hydrated this is why a lot of
people actually put this oil on their
face at night and then when they wake up
in the morning they're like wow
my skin looks significantly different
you can also put this on your hair and
I'm going to show you how to apply it on
the hair in a little bit as well as on
your scalp if you have split ends or you
have dried out hair you can definitely
see a huge change very quick this
plant-base chemical also has very
powerful anti-inflammatory effects
applying castor oil onto a face that's
inflamed it's a very effective remedy
Castoro also has an antimicrobial effect
too you have to understand that there is
an entire
microbial life on the surface of all of
your skin those microbes are there to
protect you against all sorts of bad
things you have to realize that there's
a lot of skin related problems that are
an overgrowth of either bacteria or
Yeast or even a fungus castro oil is the
perfect antidote to that there's also a
bacterial component to acne castro oil
also has a good amount of vitamin E
vitamin E can give you protection
against things like UV radiation and
pollution some of the properties in
Castor oil you can put on a wound to
heal it it also has other properties of
fading the darker spots on the skin as
well this can overall give you a nice
even complexion in Casto there's a
vitamin A precursors beta carotene which
can help support the skin you also have
a good amount of magnesium and
pottassium which skin can benefit from
as well and there's even some evidence
that Castro oil can help stimulate
collagen synthesis which is actually
very important in the anti-aging process
to keep that collagen as full as
possible you would definitely want to
apply castor oil to any scars that you
have acne scars scars from stretch marks
which happen to be in your abdomen any
scars in the body you want to routinely
rub a few drops into a scar for a period
of maybe 30 seconds as far as the
potency of this anti-inflammatory effect
it can be comparable to something like
ibuprofen How do we apply it a lot of
people cut it with other oil oils
coconut oil olive oil and there's
hundreds of different types of oils you
can also cut it with other people don't
cut it they use it as is because one of
the challenges with this oil it's thick
and a little bit sticky you simply take
a couple drops put it on your fingertips
and rub it into your face in areas that
are dry wrinkled or rened or irritated
you just apply a little bit more of that
into those areas if we're talking about
a couple drops we're talking about like
three cents a day it's going to cost you
to create these effects I recommend
applying this before you go to bed when
you wake up it has a chance to really
penetrate and soak into the tissues I
would be careful putting it around your
abdomen or pelvis area if you are
pregnant and you're not ready to deliver
because it could induce labor another
application is some women use it to take
off makeup from their face they might
mix it in with other types of lotions as
a makeup remover as well because it
gives you some additional benefits if
you're going to put it in your hair what
I would recommend especially if you have
hair loss is to rub it deep into the
scalp what it could potentially do is
stimulate the growth of hair especially
if you have alopecia you really want to
rub it deeply and really scrub into the
scalp any areas where you want to grow
hair I'd also put like four drops into
your fingertips and run it through your
entire hair as well before you go to bed
that way when you wake up you're going
to notice that your hair is just so
hydrated as far as the type of castor
oil I would recommend I would definitely
spend the extra money for something cold
pressed something without hexane that's
a solvent you want organic they use
hexane and a lot of the seed oils to
extract certain things as well so if
you're consuming soy oil canola cotton
seed corn oil you're getting potentially
some hexane and a lot of people use the
Jamaican black castro oil it seems to
have some amazing properties that are
even better than the regular castor oil
in other parts of the world if you want
to grow your eyelashes castro oil is a
great remedy just on a daily basis rub
just a little bit into the roots of the
eyelashes and watch things start to
change in a positive way lastly what
about this toxin in Castro oil you don't
have to worry about it that specific
toxin is eliminated in the production of
creating this oil the manufacturing
companies that make this know about this
poison and so it's tested to make sure
there's no poison in there of course if
anyone is exposed to this unfortunately
there's not a simple antidote you just
need to go to the hospital to see what
they can do and if you have certain
amounts which is not a lot you have like
36 to 72 hours before you die can be
very dangerous but of course you do not
have to worry about that if you're using
the oil it's quite a paradox to have
something so poisonous to be also be so
therapeutic to so many parts of your
body it's quite fascinating thanks for
watching and if you haven't seen my
video on the number one nutrient
deficiency behind all types of skin
disorders okay we're talking about
dermatitis and a lot of other skin
problems if you haven't seen the video
you might want to watch it I'll put it
up right here check it out
