you know when someone has chest pain
they automatically think it's a heart
attack okay but according to the
statistics that's not always the case
only 31% of those people that have
angina or chest pain have this
connection to the heart and even if
someone does have engina or chest pain
it doesn't mean they have a heart attack
a heart attack is a situation where you
have a lack of blood flow to the heart
that actually causes some damage and so
if you have chest pain there could be
something going on in the heart that's
creating the pain but not necessarily
damage however it could create damage
and one thing you need to know about
heart attacks is that out of all the
heart attacks the great majority like
64% of heart attacks are silent there is
no symptoms whatsoever but when someone
has angina they a lot of times have
sweating dizziness and shortness of
breath but many times they go to the
emergency room and there is nothing
going on with the heart so today we're
going to talk about the other reasons
like 11 other reasons why you might have
chest pain we take a look at the chest
cavity um you have a lot of things that
are right underneath the chest cabinet
you have the heart of course you have
the lungs you have the liver you have
the gallbladder you have all the bile
Ducks you have the pancreas and you have
ducks that kind of join with the bile
ducts from the gallbladder and then you
also have the stomach so 42% of people
that have chest pain have a symptom that
is related to their digestion okay has
nothing to do with the heart and I'm
also going to cover the other causes
that are more rare that involve the lung
tissue okay the first thing I want to
talk about is this thing called gird
what is gird gird is basically acid
reflux it's an advanced uh acid reflux
where the valve on the top of the
stomach is not closing and so food is
regurgitating back up into the esophagus
and when that happens it can cause uh
discomfort in chest pain because that's
right underneath the sternum and I'm
going to put some links down below of
videos that I've done on every single
area so you can get more information if
you have this problem but a very
important question to ask if you have
chest pain is what happened just before
the chest pain just to get a clue was
there something you ate that you
normally shouldn't be eating or is it
some stress or whatever the next cause
of chest pain the gallbladder but it's
not necessarily gall stones okay it's
usually something involving the bile
ducts or the little tubes that connect
from the liver that pass through the
liver that connect to the gallbladder
that go into the small intestine that
also connect with the pancreatic ducts
so the bile that is flowing through the
liver that is supposed to drain into the
small intestine many times becomes
thickened and develops a sludge and that
topic is something that there's not a
lot of data out there even though it's
very very common I've done a lot of
videos on it and and it's a real thing
and when this bile becomes thickened
because there's not enough bile that
creates all sorts of pressure in that
tube and that pressure in that location
is directly underneath your rib cage in
fact many people who have costocondritis
which is inflammation in the sternum
really have a problem with their bile
ducts I mean if you think about it why
would someone have inflammation in the
carage next to their sternum unless
maybe they just did a workout doing
bench press and they're really sore but
what would cause this inflammation which
is directly over the sternum it just
doesn't make sense and for those people
that have never heard about this before
because you haven't watched my videos um
the antidote is bios salts okay and you
can get them online and one version that
works really good is called TKA and if
you've ruled out a heart problem okay
and it's definitely not heart related
and you end up massaging underneath the
right rib cage and done a video on that
I'll put that link down below and you
immediately experience relief with your
chest pain chances are it's related to
the digestive system and you also
ultimately have to find out what you
should be eating to really correct that
problem another cause would be something
called stress if someone has a panic
attack they usually have chest pain
there's even something called broken
heart syndrome it's an actual thing that
someone experiences a l loss of
something a loss of a loved one and they
end up with chest pain because of the
amount of overwhelming stress I mean out
of all the stress that someone can
experience it's the loss that creates
the most impact on your physical health
and the elevation of the stress hormones
especially cortisol that stay elevated
over a long period of time become
chronic and it creates a lot of
Destruction on the heart and other parts
of your body even your brain and people
can even start developing diabetes and
gain weight uh because of this chronic
cortisol uh problem that then starts
elevating your blood sugars even when
you're not eating sugar so out of all
the nonheart related causes of chest
pain we have the digestive issues and
then we have the stress issues okay now
these next causes are very rare but I'm
going to bring them up number one a
pulmonary embolism what is that well
that's a uh thrombus or a clot that ends
up in your lungs and that can definitely
create uh chest pain because it's going
to affect your breathing and circulation
all the circulation in the body actually
travels through your lungs and if there
is some blockage to your lungs you're
going to have major chest pain and
especially when you breathe in okay
pneumothorax and so that basically is a
collaps lung and so now we have this
increased space space between the lung
and the wall of your chest so you're
usually going to have a sharp chest pain
on one side because of that then you
have something called aortic dissection
where you have the aorta which is a
major vessel that is either tore or
ruptured okay that is extremely
dangerous but it is also extremely rare
then you have pneumonia okay that can
cause chest pain but if you have a lung
infection you're going to know you have
a lung infection with other symptoms
asthma can create chest pain um just so
you know if you have asthma there's two
things I would recommend one is vitamin
D okay you're going to experience relief
from that and also a very amazing
breathing uh technique I'll put those
links down below this breathing
technique can pull someone out of an
asthmatic attack within minutes then
shingles shingles actually is viral
related and that can create chest pain
as well and then you have something
called pericarditis which is viral where
you have this inflammation around the
heart okay now since a very common cause
of chest pain relates to the digestive
system I highly suggest you watch this
video next right here
