hey guys dr. Burke here in this short
video we're going to talk about the pump
conceit okay there are a lot of great
benefits number one high in protein
number two high in healthy fats tons of
B vitamins a great snack with a meal so
it's very high in zinc and it's one of
the seeds that has the complete vitamin
E complex now in the vitamin E complex
it's not just alpha tocopheryl it's
alpha beta Delta Gamma you have all
these different complex parts of the
vitamin E complex that people really
don't get and that's good for the heart
the skin the pituitary going through
menopause adrenal health just basically
a general healing so pumpkin seed is
loaded with vitamin E a lot of times
people depend on their grains to get
vitamin E but you really don't because
as soon as they grind the flour it you
lose the vitamin E complex okay I mean
you're not normally going to eat pumpkin
seed flour you can eat the seed usually
raw you'll get a lot of vitamin E from
that so it's really good to prevent
angina chest pain okay manganese
magnesium loaded with those minerals
phosphorus for energy and also
phytosterols what does that mean those
are plant based chemicals that prevent
enlargement of the prostate so if you
look at a lot of prostate remedies they
usually a pumpkin seed because the
pumpkin seed is really good as an anti
prostate enlargement remedy okay so go
ahead and start including these in your
diet and thanks for watching
