hey guys I wanted to create a short
video on lectins okay I want to make it
really really simple lectins are
proteins in certain foods that have a
couple purposes one is it acts as a
survival mechanism to protect the plant
it actually keeps the insects away
because it kind of release lectin is
kind of considered a poison to insects
and also helps the communication between
the cells now the problem is if a person
is sensitive to lectins and they eat too
much they can actually create an
inflammatory condition in the gut they
can actually it can really tear them up
and create leaky gut which then can lead
to autoimmune problems because a lot of
your immune system is in the intestines
or around the intestines so the foods
that are very high in lectins are like
beans legumes especially kidney beans
peanuts soy whole grains nightshades not
all of the vegetables but the nitrates
the peppers the eggplant the tomatoes
high-end lectins certain animal products
also have lectins especially if the
animal consumes grains okay but not
grass-fed so you don't have to worry
about that and this is why it's
important for vegetarians or vegans if
they're consuming beans or legumes to
cook them properly or ferment them
germinate them soak them to try to lower
elect ins because it definitely is a big
problem for people now I had another
point from someone who said I dr. Berg
you're recommending all these vegetables
and I am lectin sensitive so how am I
going to do this well first of all
you're not going to find many lectins in
leafy greens okay so those are totally
fine and you're not going to find much
lectins in cruciferous vegetables so
that's definitely not going to be an
issue it's going to be mainly in the
night shades so you can just avoid those
and then the last question is what would
make someone more sensitive to lectins
than others well it has to do with your
microbiome or your your internal flora
of your friendly bacteria if you don't
have a good flora in your gut
you're gonna be more sensitive and that
could happen after antibiotics or
consuming GMO foods which have
glyphosate that really disrupt the gut
and I think that's one really big issue
that a lot of people don't focus on but
as long as you're doing organic foods
you're doing healthy Kido you're not
consuming these right here and you avoid
the nightshades you're gonna be fine
another thing you might want to do is
add a good probiotic I like EEM it's
called effective microbes and you can
get it online I don't have any specific
company but just find that and start
taking a little bit of that before you
go to bed all right thanks for watching
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as an video click the link
down below and share some ideas I want
to hear
