hi guys Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about an amazing mineral a
trace mineral called zinc it's actually
a co-actor for over a 100 enzymes seems
to these enzymes these magical proteins
require trace minerals to actually be
activated some have need manganese some
need magnesium some need calcium but a
lot of them need zinc so let's just talk
about the different functions uh zinc is
involved in um an enzyme that helps you
control your pH of the blood of the
stomach and of the urine so if you have
a pH problem and you can't seem to
balance it out it could be just a simple
zinc
deficiency um to absorb zinc you need a
real good acid stomach so those people
who take anti- acids uh develop zinc
deficiencies so zinc AIDS in reducing
allergies and histamines that's stuff
that causes mucous congestion in your
cusis or your lungs most people with
allergies are zinc deficient then we
have the common cold which most of the
time it's viral in nature so zinc will
speed up the time of recovery zinc also
controls growth in a child your hair
like you can have alopecia and it could
be a zinc deficiency or nail issues skin
issues eczema sasis I mean if you think
about all these different creams that
people put on the skin they're zinc
based zinc also improves acne so if
you're deficient in zinc you can also be
susceptible to bacterial infections or
viral infections zinc also prevents diab
diarrhea so men that are getting
estrogen dominant they're getting breast
tissue they have problems with libido
sex drive they should start taking zinc
in the form of Zinc that I would
recommend is called zinc orate it seems
to be the highest quality zinc based on
absorption all right thanks for watching
hi guys Hey listen I created a pretty
amazing evaluation quiz down below that
actually analyzes your symptoms to find
the cause the root cause of all of your
symptoms the most likely cause so take
the quiz now and we'll send you a report
