hey guys today we're going to talk about
how to avoid rusting out your brain okay
so I was reading this UCLA study on the
iron accumulation connection to
Alzheimer's patients very fascinating
I'm going to put a link down below and
that makes sense because we know too
much iron in the body is very dangerous
to the mitochondria to the cells creates
a lot of damage it can lead to cancer so
when you combine free iron with oxygen
you form a very powerful free radical
that can damage the fat layer that
surrounds the nervous system the myelin
and it can just break that down in the
body you want all the iron to be formed
with a protein like in your blood for
example you have it connected with a
protein but we don't want it being free
we don't want to use too much or else it
can create a lot of problems so iron can
then destroy certain parts of the brain
specifically the hippocampus which then
can lead to dementia but it's really the
accumulation of iron and having free
iron in the body that creates the
problem so then my question is where are
we getting this excess iron two places
one is supplementation some of the top
main vitamin companies use the wrong
type of iron in their ingredients okay
so I'm not going to mention names but
I'm sure you can figure it out in fact
why don't you comment below and tell me
what you think okay
but it's the type of vitamins that you
would get from G and C or the drugstore
they're not food based okay and you'd
pick up the bottle and they're really
heavy because they have a ton of calcium
carbonate and they have metals and that
synthetic vitamins very cheap to make
but they are loaded with the wrong type
of iron okay so if you're going to buy a
supplement just make sure it's food
based if your parents are buying
supplements or your grandparents look in
their cupboard and make sure it comes
from actual food just read the
ingredients and see what it's made from
if it doesn't have food in there just
replace it with some higher quality
supplement number two the fortification
of foods primarily grains the enriching
with the synthetic B vitamins and the
iron that's how people are becoming
exposed so of course
if you're doing health Aikido you're not
going to be consuming grains so you have
nothing to worry about but you know your
parents your grandparents could
unknowingly be consuming excess iron
from the fortification of foods so check
out the link below and if you do have
problems with Alzheimer's okay or
dementia and you find you have
accumulation of iron in the body the
question is how do you get it out I
would recommend taking something like a
key later which basically naturally
combines with iron and pulls it out
safely the best natural key later is
phytic acid in the form of ip6 okay you
can get this from the health of store I
don't have any brand names just look up
ip6 and this is what you'd want to take
to help neutralize iron and get it out
of the body safely so we can actually
protect ourselves against excess iron
thanks for watching so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story yet so
click the link down below and upload you
before and after I want to actually hear
about your success story I want to see
your before-and-afters and every week we
do featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
