I'm going to show you how to get rid of
hypoglycemia with just one tiny simple
change now what is Hypoglycemia well
technically it's a blood sugar that's
below 70 milligrams per deciliter and
it's actually rare to have blood sugar
being low when you have
hypoglycemic symptoms the great majority
of time you have all the symptoms yet
your blood sugars are normal and when I
talk about symptoms I'm talking about
shakiness irritable anxiety hungry
sweating headache can't concentrate
blurry eyes and so you hear this a lot
where oh my blood sugars are crashing I
need to go eat something right but most
of the time if you were to check your
blood sugars it's just normal so what is
going on well I want to explain this by
using
earplugs okay if I were to put these
earplugs in my ears right now and you
were to talk to me I wouldn't be able to
hear you in fact you would have to shout
at me
for me to hear you to penetrate
this resistance so with hypoglycemia
you have something going on
um you have this resistance it's called
insulin resistance okay now insulin is
the hormone that helps to lower blood
glucose and just so you know regarding
blood sugars your body has this
Superior
I don't know if it's like a law in the
body or Superior principle that no
matter what it's very very very
important to keep your blood sugars
normal and it's even more important to
keep the blood sugars higher than lower
for survival your body will do all sorts
of things to prevent this lowering of
your blood sugar your brain needs
glucose or certain parts of it and
without that glucose you will not be
able to survive and so insulin is the
main hormone that comes in there and
lowers your blood glucose if it's too
high after you eat and insulin is
triggered by two things it's the
carbohydrates that you eat and how
refined they are or how much
concentrated sugar and also it's the
frequency of eating so if you eat a lot
of meals a lot of snacks you're going to
keep spiking insulin over and over and
over and the problem is that when you
keep spiking insulin chronically over a
period of time you develop what's called
insulin resistance it doesn't lower the
blood sugars as well as it should
because you have these earplugs plugs in
here so if I had these earplugs in there
and you were talking to me you would
literally have to shout at me with high
volume of communication to penetrate so
I can hear just a little bit well that's
what happens with hypoglycemia you have
a situation where you may normally have
normal blood sugar
but you have high insulin in the
background to try to penetrate this
resistance so you can at least get some
control of that insulin to help lower
the blood glucose so the body keeps
compensating over time to stabilizes
blood sugars because if you eat a carb
the blood sugars go up the insulin kicks
in there and pushes it down well we
can't have low blood sugar so the body
will start to develop resistance against
the thing that is pushing the glucose
down
now what's abnormal about this whole
thing is that bodies were not designed
to consume the amount of carbohydrates
that we consume so that's really the
underlying root cause and the glucose in
the blood might be normal but because
insulin controls glucose absorption you
probably have very low amounts of
glucose in the actual cell in other
words glucose absorption in your cells
is dependent on insulin so the more
insulin resistance you have the less
glucose you're going to have in the cell
and if you have low insulin in the cell
which I don't even know if they have a
way to test that but the point is you're
going to have hypoglycemia symptoms with
normal blood glucose and in the
background High insulin the medical term
for this is called hyper
insulinemic that means High insulin in
the blood hypoglycemia hypo meaning low
glycemia meaning sugar it's probably one
of the most common types of hypoglycemia
especially for kids and infants and now
the worst thing you can do okay for
hypoglycemia
is to continue
to have these small
meals okay even small protein meals to
try to fix it or even worse
um some sugar to raise your blood
glucose higher that's the worst thing
you can do because that's going to
trigger more insulin it's going to make
things worse and worse you'll feel
better temporarily but it's going to be
worse and worse over time so it's a
complete myth or even a lie that you
should have small frequent meals to
prevent low blood sugar and it's also a
lie that these frequent small meals
somehow stoke the metabolic fire or
stimulate your metabolism absolutely not
true and it's also a myth that breakfast
is the most important meal even though I
used to recommend it I don't recommend
that anymore because actually when you
eat it stimulates more hunger about an
hour and a half later why because of
this whole insulin thing that's going on
in the background how do we fix this you
have a couple different types of fuel
that you can run your body off of the
majority of the population is running
their body off of glucose and so when
you're doing that oh my gosh you are
dependent on trying to get glucose all
the time because we don't store a lot of
glucose we only have a very small
storage of glucose it's called glycogen
it's in your muscle and your liver and
when that runs out oh my gosh we we need
quick energy right we need glucose but
what about fat why not just run your
body on fat fuel you have a lot more
storage of fat than you do glucose an
average person who is not skinny has
literally a hundred thousand calories of
stored fat in their body that's enough
to last at least three months or longer
the world record of the person who
fasted the longest was over a year
without food and they survived and they
lost a lot of weight the point is you
have almost an unlimited ability to run
your body off fat Fuel and our bodies
were designed to do that and I'm now
going to convince you that that is the
best fuel to run your body off of and
when I say fat I'm talking about fatty
acids and ketones ketones are one of the
byproducts out of fat so you can run the
body on a combination of fatty acids and
ketones but they both come from fat
what's really cool about running your
body off of fat is it only takes a few
days
to switch over to this new fuel system
that your body's going to be like wow
this is a lot better than the glucose
because my appetite went away and I feel
so much better big thing that's so
beneficial about ketones and fatty acids
is that you don't need insulin as a
hormone
to be involved so this glucose fuel is
dependent on insulin so anything that is
connected with insulin resistance like
all the problems like metabolic syndrome
high blood pressure high cholesterol
belly fat liver fat inflammation
dementia all these body problems and
there's quite a few and you pretty much
bypass any of these problems that are
associated with insulin resistance they
tend to go bye-bye when you start
changing over the fuel system now deep
inside your cells you have the
mitochondria that's the energy Factory
of the body and deep inside the
mitochondria you have something called
the Krebs cycle and it's really complex
but it's basically converting glucose
into energy but when you run your body
on ketones and fatty acids you don't
need to involve all those different
steps that are involved with glucose you
only need to use one or maybe two of
these many different alchemical steps
that glucose needs this saves you a lot
of energy so it's like running your body
off of a much better machine and it
produces a lot more energy when you run
your body on ketones and fatty acids you
actually take a huge stress off the
mitochondria and if you don't already
know this the majority of non-infectious
diseases that we experience involve the
mitochondria and I'm including cancer at
the top of the list when you run your
body off too much glucose it destroys
the mitochondria with all sorts of
reactive oxygen molecules I'm not going
to get into the weeds with that but the
point is that there's a lot of side
effects when you run your body off too
much glucose you get enhanced
mitochondria function you have more
oxygen involved with the mitochondria
you need less fuel to run the body you
even need less thyroid hormones to keep
your metabolism up because the thyroid
gland runs more efficiently and your
liver doesn't have to work so hard you
have to realize that the liver has to do
a lot of different things it's like 500
different functions and when you run
your body off of fat and you decrease
the need for glucose in the brain
because the brain can also run on
ketones well most of it can only a small
portion needs actual glucose that your
liver can now just focus on that really
important action of producing
new glucose for the brain and certain
other tissues like red blood cells
and that's called gluconeogenesis you
basically give your brain a chance to
chill out you give your heart a chance
to work better because the heart is a
muscle just like your skeletal muscle so
you actually take a big stress off your
muscles you also take a big stress off
your liver there's only one thing just
one simple thing you need to do and that
is this
lower
your carbohydrates below 50 grams
per day that's it and when you do that
the body will start to transition over
okay within a few days to this new fuel
system and in this transition you're
going to have more ketones in your blood
in your urine in your breath and there's
ways to test that and those are extra
ketones that are not being burned yet
because you're right in the transition
phase and your body is adapting to this
new machine to the point where you're
going to be burning off these ketones
more efficiently very soon but in the
meantime you can at least test for these
ketones to see that if you're in ketosis
or if you're in this transition stage
and and when you kind of graduate from
this transition phase this is why I
recommend a urine Ketone sticks you can
measure your urine and you're going to
initially see a lot of ketones coming
from the urine and then you're going to
see less and less and less and that
means that your body is actually finally
adapting to ketones and it's burning
more of the ketones
a better test at that time to switch
over to
is the blood Ketone test and you can get
these kits so all you need right now is
a simple explanation on how to do this
switch and for that I put the video up
right here
