we're going to talk about the seven
signs that your body is begging you for
more vitamin D as well as why daily
dosing of vitamin D is crucial number
one if you have high blood pressure one
of the biggest causes of high blood
pressure is low vitamin D number two
lowered mood as in depression could be
anxiety as well number three
inflammation whether it's from
autoimmune or arthritis or anything if
you have inflammation you probably need
more vitamin D number four your immune
system is weak and you are getting sick
too frequently number five if your sleep
cycle is off you wake up and you're not
refreshed or you have sleep apnea
vitamin D will help you get into that
Delta wave deep sleep so you wake up
feeling refreshed number six almost
every type of skin problem is related to
a vitamin D deficiency and seven lower
back pain as well as muscle pain if your
muscles are tight sore and pain painful
take more Vitamin D it will get rid of
that now let me just share some wild
information with you when they test you
and they're looking at this inactive
version they're actually looking at
mainly two types of vitamin D they're
looking at the bound vitamin D or the
Unbound the free vitamin D over 99% of
all this inactive vitamin D they test in
your blood is this type right here
bounded and then you have a tiny bit
that's free the halflife for this bound
vitamin D is like 2 to 3 weeks and the
halflife for the free is 24 hours all
right so what does that all mean it
means that when they test you and you
see a certain amount they're not
differentiating between the
bound vitamin D or the free vitamin D
you can assume that you have enough
vitamin D to support your skin your
muscles your organs your immune system
but unless you're taking vitamin D or
getting Sun every 24 hours there's a
likelihood that you're probably going to
be somewhat deficient especially with
all the other barriers on top of this
vitamin D situation including obesity
insulin resistance diabetes being inside
and not getting exposure not getting
enough vitamin D from the food the more
we age the less we can convert vitamin D
on our skin and the recommendations for
vitamin D are a joke you need higher
amounts so this is why I recommend daily
vitamin D if your doctor says oh my gosh
that's a Toxic effect just ask them how
much vitamin D can I get from being out
in the sun for about a half hour to 40
minutes because the answer is 20,000 I
use so 10,000 is not an abnormal amount
now the last and very important part I
want to mention about vitamin D in order
for vitamin D to go go through those
different biochemical reactions it needs
help from certain nutrients like
magnesium like zinc like vitamin K2 like
Boron and that way you can maximize your
ability to have vitamin D work without
any type of deficiencies and if you want
more information on that and also how to
prevent any type of toxicity you should
watch this video right here
