so are you exhausted after giving up
your carbs now I want to explain why
this is I recently did a video talking
about this but I wanted to create one
video just in this one point because I
think it's really really important okay
in your body you have something called
the mitochondria the mitochondria is
where all the energy is is created in
your body and you have food that
converts into energy in order to do that
you need all these different chemical
reactions that occur this biochemical
pathway to make it really simple you can
think of it like a carburetor where
you're mixing air or oxygen with fuel at
the right ratios with a spark plug to
create energy or in the body it's called
ATP okay
the spark plug that ignites this
combination right here there's two
there's vitamin b1 and magnesium okay
these two nutrients are the cofactors
for enzymes the enzyme is what's doing
the work in the spark plug okay but
these two are essential to make this
activated so without these this never
sparks so you don't get the energy okay
so our bodies need a lot of b1 and
magnesium especially if we have a
history of doing high carb diets okay
and then we do ketosis okay we get off
the carbs we developed new machinery to
actually burn fat well you actually now
need also a good amount of these so if
you're going into this without these two
nutrients you might not be able to
generate the energy that you need so
simply start plugging in b1 and
magnesium to this equation you're gonna
start getting more and more energy
another problem is when you do too much
fuel like in a high carbohydrate diet
the ratio then becomes off so now we
have too much fuel for the oxygen
because we're normally should have just
like a little drop right in a carburetor
there too much fuel you actually flood
the engine and that's another way to be
very very tired so I recommend if you're
going to take b1 also take nutritional
yeast or find a natural B complex so
that way if
taking b1 it doesn't eventually knock
out the other factors because in nature
you always want the complex okay it's
okay to take b1 but if you're taking a
long period of time you want to take the
complex with it and make sure it's a
natural source like nutritional yeast is
a natural source of B vitamins okay but
there's other sources as well and also
take a magnesium with that together so
you can create the spark to get your
energy back alright thanks for watching
so I want to know about what you think
about this video so please comment below
and tell me what you think
