hey guys today we're gonna talk about
magnesium a very interesting mineral
there's a lot to know about it I'm just
gonna take from the top magnesium is a
cofactor
okay what's the cofactor it's a helper
element involved in the activation of
certain enzymes there's actually 300
enzymes that magnesium is involved with
and the one that I'm going to talk about
is involved in the mitochondria and it
has to do with producing energy without
getting too technical that's called the
krebs cycle maybe you took biology in
high school and you learn about the
krebs cycle very very simply it's the
combination of fuel or glucose if you're
gonna use glucose or there's other fuels
to plus oxygen so the biochemistry might
appear to be very complex but if you
think about a carburetor what is the
carburetor it's basically a device in
your car or your lawnmower that is
mixing a drop of fuel with oxygen in the
right ratios to then ignite through a
little spark plug to produce energy
right well you have the same thing
happening in the Mount of Kandra but the
spark plug that activates the enzyme
that ignites this combination of fuel
and oxygen is magnesium and vitamin b1
okay I mean there's other other
nutrients as well but those two are the
big ones so if you don't have enough
magnesium your body you're gonna suffer
from low energy you're gonna have to
teak there's other things too that you
might experience inability to relax so
magnesium helps muscles relax calms down
nerves slows the rate of nerve impulses
and it's really important in heart
physiology if you don't have enough
magnesium you get cramps in the CAF's
you get spasms you you muscles become
very very tight you might even develop
something called natural fibrillation
now that could also be a potassium
mineral another similar mineral that has
similar functions but atrial
fibrillation is part of the heart and
stimulating it's not in rhythm and it's
kind of quivering and that could be
there magnesium deficiency or a
potassium deficiency you can get
constipation well you have muscles
around the colon you have this pumping
action called peristalsis so if you
don't have enough Magne
everything kind of backs up and it
doesn't work it's kind of like your
whole colon becomes very very tight and
you might be bloated and you get
constipated and because the muscles
aren't relaxing your blood pressure goes
up if you can't relax you're gonna have
insomnia you're not gonna be able to
sleep you're gonna have heart rhythm
problems in palpitation possibly chronic
back pain a lot of times the muscles are
just very very very tight they're in a
spasm and it's going to pinch around the
nerve migraines so you can see that
magnesium deficiencies can create a lot
of problems
you also need vitamin D to help absorb
magnesium so a lot of times people
associated by them indeed just with
calcium absorption but you also need it
for magnesium magnesium and calcium also
are needed so in other words if you have
too much or too little calcium that's
gonna affect the amount of magnesium
that you are going to be able to utilize
and absorb insulin resistance is a
situation where you have insulin doesn't
connect with the cell that well the
receptor is like blocking it so we have
a resistance which by the way always
will increase the amount of insulin
because you have the feedback loops
aren't connecting so the body feels that
it's not going in so it produces more so
insulin resistance is a situation we
have too much insulin and it's just
blocked well when you have in some
resistance you can't absorb magnesium
and other minerals as well now by taking
more magnesium you can improve insulin
resistance you can increase the
sensitivity of insulin and make insulin
work better and also by taking magnesium
you can help the absorption of potassium
so you can see there's a lot of
relationship between vitamins and
minerals and hormones they all work
together okay so where do you get
magnesium okay well one of the best
places are foods that are high in
chlorophyll okay chlorophyll is like the
blood of the plant the chemistry of
chlorophyll is very similar to your own
blood but your blood has iron as its
main mineral and chlorophyll has
magnesium so you want to consume a lot
more leafy greens to get your magnesium
but the cool thing is you're going to
also get the potassium you're going to
get calcium and your vitamins as well
and so nuts and seeds and as a
side point the quantity of leafy greens
you would need would be roughly around
seven cups to eight cups or even up to
ten cups per day to get your minimum
amounts of magnesium but that way you'll
get your potassium as well alright well
thanks for watching hey guys so there's
a whole bunch of people that really need
this information so press the share
button and let's get it way out there
