let's talk about the superfoods that are
the best foods for the kidneys now I'm
not talking about preventing a kidney
problem I'm talking about if you already
have kidney damage so let's say you have
this chronic kidney disease what do you
eat that's what I want to talk about now
the kidney is composed of these tiny
little things called nephrons okay not
neurons nephrons and a nephron is a a
super sophisticated complex little
filter that doesn't just filter it
regulates a lot of things in your blood
so it does filter waste but it recycles
a lot of electrolytes and hormones and
minerals and vitamins and protein so
when you end up damaging these filters
um you're going to have to really shift
what you eat because now you're going to
have a buildup of phosphorus
potassium sodium with deficiencies of
other nutrients as well so you can't
just just eat the same thing you've been
eating I highly recommend you don't go
out to dinner you actually make your own
foods and try to make these Foods as
whole as possible I would not consume
anything refined and also you need to
understand the number one cause of
kidney damage comes from having diabetes
which is a high sugar situation so
you're going to have to cut the sugar
right out and also those things that
create more damage than sugar that act
like sugar like the starches I'm talking
about multi
talking about the modified food starch
and the modified corn starch things that
are really Ultra refined so no more
eating anything out of a box or a can or
any quick junk Foods you're gon to have
to really think through what you eat
because what I'm going to show you will
definitely extend your life there are
other things that can destroy the kidney
as well drugs medications alcohol
especially pain medication smoking junk
food Ultra processed foods and that's a
combination of like like the seed oils
the corn oil the soy oil the cotton seed
oil the canola you need to just get rid
of those so let's start with protein
okay what type of protein should you
consume because you don't want to do um
a lot of protein you want to do a
moderate to slightly lower amounts of
protein and you really want to think
with your protein because most proteins
have high amounts of phosphorus so we
don't want to overload the kidney with
too much of that and by the way when
you're doing this always work with your
doctor because they're going to be
monitoring your levels of these
nutrients to make sure that they're in
check but I want to give you some other
things to think with that you're not
going to find usually when doing the
searches on the internet so let's start
out with the lower phosphorus proteins
because that is the problem with a lot
of fish it's high in mercury and Mercury
also can cause an autoimmune disease
with the kidney and most mercury
exposure is probably from fish um but
fish also has selenium or at least
certain types of fish like sardin and
salmon but both of those are a bit
higher in phosphorus I would just
consume them not as often as the other
ones but definitely on a regular basis
and I think out of all the fish that are
the lowest in phosphorus it's the cod
fish as well as a seab bass but I would
avoid turkey liver like beef liver or
any type of liver because that's going
to be high phosphorus egg yolks okay and
nuts now nuts also are loaded with this
other thing called fuc Fates which also
can irritate the kidney and block
certain nutrients that the kidneys need
like zinc and other minerals so it's
going to make it more difficult to get
the nutrients that you need so when
we're talking about the kidneys we're
talking about consuming foods that have
the lowest amount of toxicity and I'm
not just talking about the chemicals in
the food which are the obvious things
and the GMOs and the conventional foods
but I'm also talking about the toxicity
of other things in food like like
oxalates especially if you have kidney
damage can really tear up the kidneys so
you want to avoid things like almonds
spinach and chocolate those are three
big ones loaded with oxalates and
oxalates can increase inflammation of
the kidneys and we also have other
things in certain foods like tannins
like I wouldn't consume black tea but
green tea is low in tannins so that
would be fine there's also um this thing
called lectins right now I believe that
lectins are not a problem unless you
have you know gut damage or liver damage
or kidney damage or especially
intestinal damage but when you have
kidney damage probably want to eat uh
certain things that are lower in lectins
now this relates to vegetables okay now
the other problem with vegetables is
that we have the oxalates and we also
have their level of potassium maybe
magnesium we don't want it to be super
high so what vegetables would be very
safe to consume for someone with kidney
disease well number one asparagus
asparagus will also decrease the load of
this waste like uric acid waste ammonia
celery is another one that can actually
decrease the uric acid and that's also
low in these other nutrients that I just
mentioned another one that's safe would
be lettuce I'm not talking about Swiss
chard or the beet greens those are high
in oxalates okay so you probably want to
avoid those so we have asparagus celery
lettuce avocado cucumber garlic
cabbage cauliflower and mushrooms even
though mushroom is not a vegetable and
they also create it like more of an
alkaline effect so if there's a bit more
acidity that builds up these will help
neutralize that the ones that you should
probably avoid because they're high in
lectin would be the egg plant the
potatoes the beans the grains and like I
said before the nuts so if you focus on
the list of vegetables that are on the
okay list you'll also get a lot of
antioxidants and that's going to prevent
a lot of the free radical damage that's
going on in the kidneys another really
good food to consume for advanced kidney
problems would be spirulina it's a type
of algae that seems to be very good for
advanced stage kidney problems it has a
lot of things it has vitamins and
minerals and phytonutrients and
chlorophyll and spirulina can actually
decrease the kidney burden of its toxins
so it helps to reduce the toxicity of
your urine at the same time helping you
with anemia which is one
side effect of having kidney problems as
well as help balance the fluid retention
that you see with kidney problems as
well and one additional thing I want to
mention um that damages the kidney is
CAT scans of the kidney itself very
unfortunately I had to have two cat
skins or maybe three of my kidneys uh
for various reasons but I had to have it
done but the problem is like but that's
a lot of radiation put into your kidneys
which potentially can damage the kidneys
themselves so if if you have a choice
between a CAT scan or an ultrasound or a
CAT scan and an MRI choose the
ultrasound or the MRI but not the cat
skan unless you absolutely need it now
another really good food for the kidney
to decrease the the toxicity uh is
fermented foods sauerkraut kimchi
pickles really good for the kidneys make
sure you get the sauerkraut the
kimchi in the refrigerated section of
the groc stor so it's raw also avocados
have a really interesting type of fat
that's really good for the kidneys and
the liver and also that fat can help
extract
phytonutrients that are more fat soble
in your salad with the next thing on the
list which is extra virgin olive oil
another really good oil for the kidney
it's anti-inflammatory it's loaded with
phytonutrients vitamin E virtually no
phosphorus now as far as hard cheeses uh
they're high in phosphorus but cottage
cheese make sure it's organic because
they add this modified food starch in
commercial cottage cheese so get the one
that's organic and also goats cheese is
another one that you can consume as well
that way you can get your calcium but it
comes from a food so we want these foods
that are good for the kidneys uh that
provide the right amount of nutrition
but not too much I would recommend
getting your nutrients from the food and
not from supplementation except for
vitamin D because it's going to be
really hard to get your vitamin d and
vitamin D is going to be very important
uh for your kidneys because also realize
that it's the kidneys that helps convert
the inactive to the active vitamin D and
the liver does some of that too but the
kidneys are very very important so if
those kidneys are damaged you're going
to have low vitamin D now another
mineral that you have to watch out for
is too much sodium and the problem with
even sea salt it it has all the minerals
but it's it's a bit high in sodium it's
like
98% sodium so there is another type of
salt that's really good for uh people
with kidney problems it's called Baja
gold which is a type of salt that is
like 70% sodium chloride and the rest
other minerals so that would be a a much
better salt for people with kidney
problems keep it simple follow this food
list I know it's boring but I think it's
going to extend your life try to make
sure those ingredients are the highest
quality like organic grass-fed
um nothing out of a box or a can these
are the foods not to prevent a kidney
problem they're foods that if you have a
kidney problem you should focus more on
if you want to know what foods that can
actually be more preventative i' would
go to drberg.com and download my basic
healthy Keto Plan and intermittent
fasting and you'll find the link Down
Below in the
description
