I want to talk about body stress now
right now you're sitting there and you
have body stress as well it might be in
the your upper back it could be in your
neck it could be in the back of your
skull it could be over your chest it
could be in your stomach it could be in
your lower back or your feet so body
stress is a form of tension where
tightness that accumulates from many
different stressors over time so it
could be from injury it could be from
surgery ankle sprains falling on your
knee falling on your tailbone getting
hit in the head with something uh
whiplash injuries uh you name it um I
mean I remember as a child um I wanted I
was very curious about things so I
wanted to see I had a BB gun and I
wanted to see what it would feel like
actually to shoot my toe don't ask me
why I I wanted to do that but that was a
big mistake actually I wanted to shoot
my toe and see if I could pull my foot
away from the the little BB coming out
in time and uh obviously you know what
happened I shot my toe and it really
really hurt so that was an injury uh
created some tension um of course it was
through my shoe so it didn't really
create any damage but it did hurt um so
there's many crazy things that people do
as kids that end up hurting themselves I
remember going down the um Street uh no
hands I hit a mail box flipped upside
down it's amazing that I'm still alive
um I've been off motorcycles off cliffs
hitting trees uh wrap myself
around uh PSE telephone poles all these
things I had wrestling injuries
fracturing a lot of different bones
including my neck shoulder um and leg so
that would be an example of stressors
and then you have surgery removing of
your thyroid your appendix your tonsils
that would be a stress to the body and
infection sore throats viruses sinus uh
that would be a stress uh you also have
physical stress of going through your
menstral cycle every single month and
having that experience you also have the
emotional stress of any losses the
stress of being married having kids
having upsets family stresses uh you
have chemical stresses uh drinking
alcohol is a chemical stress eating a
lot of junk food is a chemical stress
over a period of time you know creating
trauma on the pancreas and the adrenal
and the liver so um you have that stress
and you have exercise maybe OV
exercising now exercise can reduce
stress if it's low
intensity and so I'll come back to that
in another video but these are
stressors that cause body stress which
is an inappropriate body reaction if
it's chronic in other words when things
stay there too long and become chronic
that would be an inappro apprpriate body
reaction because you're supposed to uh
your body is supposed to adapt and
remove the tension after long after the
injury but really what happens if this
is present time and this is your past
your body parts of your body is are
still reacting to these older injuries
and traumas and situations so that's
pretty much how it works and then as you
get older this tension builds up and
you'll see people their posture becomes
over like this they become really tight
they have a lot of uh stiffness and
tension
so body stress is inappropriate body
reaction it's basically certain muscles
and tissues that are in contracted State
and they will not relax or turn off okay
so at a very small microscopic level
body stress is the inability for certain
parts of your body to turn off let's
take a look at when you go to sleep at
night if you lay there and you just are
aware of your body you might find your
head won't turn off your mind won't turn
off you feel uh restlessness in your
legs tension in the chest tension in
your back that tension prevents you from
sleeping it prevents you from
rejuvenating it prevents you from
recovering and guess
what um that's going to prevent you from
losing weight because fat burning must
occur in the recovery phase or the rest
period when you're sleeping not during
stress stress okay so that's the
relationship between body tension
because it activates a hormone called
cortisol cortisol is a stress hormone by
the adrenal gland and that hormone has
the capacity of producing uh fat around
the organs internally deep inside around
your intestines that would be called
visceral fat deep abdominal visceral fat
that your body's trying to protect um
the vital organs by holding fat around
the gut but body tension is another
protective mechan because if you um stub
your toe and the toe starts to develop
like scar
tissue body stress is going to that
tension is going to protect it by
stopping the motion so your your toe
doesn't move like it should or your back
or your joints don't move like they
should
so body stress actually stops Motion in
the body so we have a contracted State
we have a lack of motion in the body so
it's really a loss of communication
in that body part that creates this
random tightness uh because when you
injure yourself or traumatize you lose
communication and when you lose
communication into a body part let's say
say your pancreas then the pancreas does
what it wants to do and it can produce a
lot of insulin or and then it stop gets
burnt out or let's say you have a a toe
that's damaged and and you lose feeling
and circulation and lymph flow and
communication it becomes numb so old
injury IES stop motion and create
tension and create a situation where you
have a lack of healing in that body
part so body stresses tension or
tightness and it gets stuck in the body
it accumulates and there's several
things that we do to remove or diminish
body stress number one we want the
person to sleep we have to fix the
person's sleep because that's where they
recover that's where they heal that's
where they recharge and in order to
sometimes sleep you have to remove the
body stress but then body stress does
improve with sleeping so we use ACU
pressure to remove body stress as our
main tool so acupressure is a unique uh
technique and I developed it um so it's
not traditional it's not like working on
the muscles generally it's a specialized
technique that I found that works on
um the turnoff mechanism and the turn on
mechanism so you have this muscle that's
not turning off it's stuck on so this
technique turns that body part off so
you you actually release the tension and
you elongate the muscles and you relax
the body so that's how we get a big
history of all the things that ever
happened to you uh injuries surgeries
infections etc etc and then we apply the
technique to all those body parts in the
location of where you traumatize
yourself extracting we're not really
extracting stress we're basically
getting the body to turn off and relax
in those areas because really this body
stress is a reaction to the stress it's
not something stress is not something
you can bottle it's just a your body is
stuck on and so we have to turn it off
and when you use acupressure and put the
person into a really good relaxed State
now they can sleep now they have motion
now they have n nerve circulation blood
flow they have more communication and
now they'll have better recovery and
with recovery comes more better
metabolism and more weight loss so
that's kind of how it works um good
nutrition is also important in reducing
body stress especially certain minerals
like calcium and potassium and then of
course exercise walking is really good
to reduce body stress it might be
temporary but it's still a valid therapy
um so we have sleeping exercising ACC
pressure we have nutrition and changing
of environment sometimes if you're in a
job that's very very stressful you need
to get another job change your
environment if you're in a marriage
that's stressful you have to change that
situation so you just by going on a
vacation your change of environment is
very good for body stress and people
sleep from that so I just wanted to kind
of create a little video on what body
stress really is and the tools to
extract this from the body by basically
working and turning the body off and
reducing tension
