today I'm going to talk about how to
slow down the aging process if you want
to look younger live longer and have
fewer diseases then this video is for
you now I know I don't look 75 years old
okay and it's probably because I'm not
75 years old I'm 59 but what I'm going
to show you is based on a huge Deep dive
into this longevity topic I'm not sure
if you've ever heard of the mitochondria
before but the mitochondria is the
energy Factory and so you're going to be
as healthy or live as long as your
mitochondria is functioning and in good
shape so without getting into too much
biochemistry if you've taken a biology
class you may remember there's something
called the Krebs cycle and the kreb
cycle is basically a little circle it's
like an assembly line and there's
various steps and different chemicals
involved in this little assembly line
and it starts with food that enters this
KB cycle and it ends with energy and I
think the biggest thing that was missing
when I studied the CB cycle with
something called co-actors this CP cycle
requires nutrients to go from A to B to
C because if you're missing a certain
nutrient instead it becomes bottlenecked
and things back up and you're not going
to be able to make the energy and so by
this additional understanding of
nutrients related to the crep cycle we
can quickly see that in order to turn
glucose or fat into energy we need
nutrients
and the reason I'm even bringing this up
is that I'm leading up to this one
molecule it's called NAD and NAD is
involved in extracting energy from food
NAD is a very vital molecule and helping
you live long and the energy that it's
going to make is called ATP it's also
involved in preventing muscle loss
especially if someone has cancer it's
also involved in protecting you against
radi
and here's the big thing you need to
know as we age the
NAD decreases researchers have found
that there's this thing that has eaten
up NAD and this thing is called
cd38 in my studies when they're born
without this
cd38 they live a long life they don't
have a lot of health problems so there
are five
compounds that you can start getting
from your diet that can then keep your
NAD very high so you can live a long
life so let's start with the first one
it's called epig genin partially has the
most epen of all plants that I could
find the next one on the list is thyme
then we get oregano basil celery these
are various spices and herbs that you
can use on your food on a regular basis
okay number two antho zanthin and you
can get this in the following Foods
blueberries anything blue purple or even
red has high amounts of this particular
natural chemical Elderberry is really
also good for your immune system then we
have the concord grape purple potatoes
okay are loaded with this the next one
is called curcumin and you might already
know that one is in the turmeric spice
and then the next phytonutrient is
called coratin and the food that has the
highest coratin is the onion most of the
coret is in the outer part of the onion
okay so when you peel the onion don't
peel it too deep and then we have the
apple skin of course apples are high in
sugar right well if you just ate the
skin of the Apple you would get a lot of
curatin and then the last one on the
list is called methylene blue now this
is not a plant this is a synthetic dye
this was actually the first drug that
was ever invented they used to use it
for many different things but it seems
to be a good inhibitor of this cd38
which can then increase the NAD and
increase your Longevity if you haven't
seen my video on methylene blue this
might tie this whole topic together for
you so for that information you should
watch this video next right here
