the number one remedy for a toxic liver
is something that you need to know about
simply because most people have toxicity
in the liver and they don't even know it
yet and that is because it takes years
decades of damage to the liver before
you even notice a symptom now some of
the first signs of a liver problem are
yellow eyes yellow skin nausea little
red dots on your skin and just basically
the lack of get up and go so the cool
thing is there is this one thing that
can greatly counter a lot of different
toxic effects for example you might
drink some alcohol right and you wake up
with a hangover this remedy will
eliminate that hangover okay it reduces
the damage of alcohol to your liver also
counters bad effects from smoking right
so here you're smoking a cigarette or
you get secondhand smoke it goes into
your lungs it goes into your bloodstream
and guess where it ends up in your liver
so this remedy can counter the damage
from smoking let's say you have a toxic
solvent that's on your skin ends up in
your bloodstream ends up in the liver
now this remedy can also handle other
things like ibuprofen which is a little
bit different it's not an
anti-inflammatory it's just something
that gets rid of pain it can help you
with the fever then you have the
toxicity from
chemotherapy radiation therapy all the
chemicals from your environment
including including herbicides
pesticides insecticides fungicides and
this remedy is called NAC I'm really
glad that it's still in the market
because they did take it off the market
for a period of time because it's
actually used as a drug but it's a
natural remedy so what does NAC really
do well it does several things number
one it's a key nutrient to replenish
something called glutathione which is a
very important antioxidant in your
entire body including the liver now
glutathione acts as an antioxidant that
helps to counter free radical damage let
me just kind of explain antioxidants and
free radical damage so if you were to
Envision spinning a plate around in a
circle right and you had a few weights
that were balanced on each side of the
plate it could spin very symmetrically
but if you took one of the weights off
and you spun it it's no longer balanced
just think about what that's doing
that's creating a lot of UN paired
electrons which then create a lot of
Destruction in the body so the
antioxidant donates an electron to give
it to this free radical to make it no
longer a free radical to balance out
that plate that's spinning now here's
the problem the antioxidant now is lost
electron so it has to regenerate that
and it gets help from other
antioxidants and this is why you don't
just have one antioxidant like in the
the liver you have glutathione you have
vitamin E you have vitamin C and they
all work together to help donate
electrons and one of the cool things
about NAC is it helps to regenerate
glutathione which then helped to
regenerate other antioxidants NAC also
increases and enhances this other thing
in the liver called Phase 1 Phase 2
detoxification so this Phase 1 Phase 2
detoxification can take a fat sble
poison and turn it into a water cble
harmless particle guess what NAC can
enhance that process in the liver NAC
also helps to regenerate liver tissue it
can also help reduce or prevent the
liver cells from committing suicide
which is kind of like the livered
self-destructing and especially I would
recommend it if you're on any
medications at all or if you are
consuming alcohol or smoking or exposed
to any type of toxicity now I want to
actually take this to the next level I
want to show you how to make NAC very
very potent first thing is to always
take it on an empty stomach it's going
to work better secondly you want to take
several doses throughout the day NAC is
even more potent if you add it with
vitamin C and selenium the last thing I
want to mention about this is that when
you take NAC
your next meal should be high in protein
that's going to help increase more amino
acids to help this glutathione work a
little bit better and in addition to the
animal protein that I would recommend I
would also recommend doing the
cruciferous vegetables right because
it's loaded with antioxidants and so
that way you have plenty of extra
additional things that your body can
draw from to actually help the liver now
if you have not seen my uh glutathione
video you might want to watch that I put
it right right here check it out
