a lot of people are concerned about
heart attacks and strokes what about an
aneurysm an aneurysm can cause a stroke
and it can definitely cause you to die
so today I'm going to teach you a little
bit about aneurysms what's involved and
what you need to do to prevent aneurysms
the first symptom or early signs of an
aneurysm is there is no symptom why
because an aneurysm is just like this
bulging dilation of your vascular system
and unless it presses on something
you're not going to feel really any
major symptoms at all until it ruptures
and when it ruptures you have a hole in
your artery so the blood's going to come
out and if this happens in your brain
you get a stroke and potentially you
might have a limited time to get to the
emergency room to do something about it
but not always so I think it's still
important to talk about aneurysms and
what it is and what you can do to
prevent it you can have an aneurysm in
the brain around the heart in the aorta
or in the kidneys many different places
and there's also a simple test that's
highly correlated to if a person has an
aneurysm and that is called the thumb to
Palm test so if you just take your hand
right now and you take your thumb across
your hand like this and if you're thumb
can extend to the outer part of your
hand that can mean that you have extra
loose collagen and there's a high
correlation between people that have
this loose collagen and aneurysms now it
doesn't mean that you have an aneurysm
and if you can't move this over here
that doesn't mean you don't have an
aneurysm it's just something to look at
in fact do this test right now and
comment down below if you can extend
your thumb past your hand right here I'm
really curious to know so let's say for
example you don't have loose ligament
structure and that's not the cause what
are some of the causes well we have
smoking now you're probably wondering
like wait a second smoking goes into the
lungs not the blood right but where do
you think the oxygen and CO2 is being
exchanged when you breathe your lungs
directly connect with your capillaries
which go right into your blood and if
that thing is uh smoke you're going to
get carbon dioxide you're going to get a
lot of different chemicals that can
start to irritate the lining of the
artery in fact smokers have a 4X greater
risk of getting an aneurysm than those
non-smokers and then of course we have
alcohol because there's certain
byproducts and chemicals that can
irritate the lining of the arteries and
I'm talking about like a chronic Drinker
not occasionally and then of course we
have diabetics and people who consume a
lot of sugar so if we expose this layer
of the inside of the artery to sugar and
hidden sugars like in starches right
modified food starch maltodextrin which
is in a lot of different foods that can
create oxidation and damage to the
inside of the arteries if you're
consuming it on a regular basis and then
you have seed oils and that's another
thing that can create chronic
inflammation and this next one is very
interesting Dental bacteria like
bacteria in an absis in your gums they
found that in the aneurysm and they also
find it in plaque so apparently that can
leak out into your vascular system and
end up creating uh inflammation because
there's an infection going on so that's
another cause of inflammation in this
layer in the heart anything that creates
chronic oxidation or inflammation can
start to weaken this uh arterial system
and then on top of that if you have high
blood pressure now we get all this
pressure with all this inflammation now
it starts to break down your arteries to
the point where it's starting to bulge
out and so you really have to kind of
just look at potentially what it could
be for you if you have high blood
pressure for example you want to take
more potassium magnesium vitamin D those
are the three things that will help
bring the pressure down including going
on a low carb diet there's something
else that can cause an aneurysm it's not
as common but it's a copper deficiency
copper is necessary in helping you build
collagen if you're deficient in Copper
you can't make the connective tissue to
make everything nice and strong and firm
copper does a lot of other things too it
actually acts as an anti fungal
antibacterial and uh one way to uh
create a copper deficiency is to take a
lot of zinc for a long period of time
without the copper so you need that
ratio of zinc to Copper so what are all
the things that you can do to prevent an
aneurysm well of course avoiding those
things that create inflammation start to
consume antioxidants okay that can be in
the form of herbs or vitamin D or
vitamin B vitamin C or foods with those
nutrients vegetables and then to
counteract a lot of the seed oils we
need the omega-3 fatty acids and out of
all the foods that are very high in
omega-3 you have the Civ oil you also
have fish as in Salmon vitamin D is also
very very important uh vitamin D helps
to prevent leaky arteries you can also
have a leaky bloodb brain barrier and
vitamin D prevents that which is
interesting it's a very powerful
anti-inflammatory so getting a lot of
sun is very important without getting
burned and in the winter time you take
your vitamin D3 minimally 10,000 I use
and probably one of the most important
things to do regular exercise because
this way you can keep strengthening the
arterial system over time so it lasts a
long time so it becomes elastic so it
doesn't become weak and exercise in
general increases antioxidants that you
make yourself
