So today we're going to talk about
something called FAL microbiota
transplantation now why would anyone
give a crap about this topic I'm sorry I
had to do that but this feal
transplantation is becoming mainstream
in medicine it's highly effective for
the infection called C it can greatly
help irritable bowel diseases it's been
found to be superior to antibiotics
there's been great results with autism
Ms rheumatoid arthri I is decreasing
risks of cancer Parkinson's chronic
fatigue syndrome acne and even
depression however I have some basic
questions about this therapy how long
does it really last I mean if you go
back to your usual eating habits do you
maintain this microbiome or does it
become altered or affected by your
lifestyle I mean what people really
should be doing is find out what the
feal donor is eating and eat like that
person but uh this feal transplant has
been around for a very very long time
I'm talking like 2,000 years the Chinese
actually used it as a therapy for many
different things but there's some really
important points to this topic the fact
that it works so well for so many
different conditions I mean the
connection between our microbes in both
the innate and the acquired immune
system the importance in brain health
the importance of digesting things that
we can't can't digest like fiber the
importance of these secondary bile salts
made by microbes and the importance of
bile in general also for our skin and
autoimmune diseases nearly every single
autoimmune disease starts in your gut
and if there was a much better friendly
relationship with these microbes chances
are you probably wouldn't get an
autoimmune problem I mean there are
certain um bacteria that help reduce the
risk for kidney stones because these
microbes help to deal with oxalates
there's microbes that deal with uric
acid to help reduce the risk of gout
they're microbes that produce compounds
that are anti-cancer and really we just
need to change our overall Viewpoint
with these bacteria or microbes in
general we've been attacking the germ as
it's the sole cause of infection but
we're finding out more and more that uh
that's not the cause of infection it's
our immune system it's the environment
and the more that we sterilize our
environments our food our gut the more
we're going to need this therapy so
let's talk about what not to do and what
to do okay you want to limit your
exposure to drugs chemicals pesticides
herbicides especially the one in GMO
Foods called glyphosate which has been
patented as an antibiotic uh we want to
limit the exposure to antibiotics and
consuming animals that have been given
antibiotics we really want to start
avoiding food foods that have been
sterilized you know you pasteurize all
these foods like the milk products the
canned products like soups the juices we
even use radiation to sterilize our
foods which is crazy instead you should
have a good portion of your diet raw
okay I'm talking about raw vegetables
I'm not talking about raw chicken okay
but maybe you can have like beef that's
rare that would be better but the more
you cook the food the more they
pasteurize things the more you kill off
good bacteria now what's so special
about plants yes they give us the fiber
that the microbes will live on but I
don't know if you knew this but plants
are filled with microbes that's right
you're consuming microbes when you're
eating a raw plant of course it really
depends on where that plant is grown if
it's grown maybe aeroponically or
something like that it probably doesn't
have as many microbes but if it's grown
on really good soils chances are it's
going to be filled with microbes and
that can actually
help you one video I did talked about uh
a really interesting topic on how plants
really get their nutrition and they get
the nutrition by eating bacteria that's
right the majority of nutrition that a
plant gets is by eating bacteria so the
roots eat the microb and and then
extract the nutrients from it and then
spit the micro back out and it starts to
recycle a lot of these microbes travel
up to the stem into the leave where they
help that plant and so this opens up a
whole new area to look at in growing
food and in farming and uh I'm actually
setting up several experiments on this
topic very soon and I'm going to share
that on a new YouTube channel so stay
tuned for more information about that I
found two Labs that can help identify
the microbes in plants and so we're
going to do all sorts of tests now these
plants also have certain
phytonutrients that go beyond just
acting as a Prebiotic they can actually
help balance the bad bacteria for
example sulfurane and broccoli sprouts
and other cerous vegetables can help
inhibit and destroy hpylori that microb
that's behind ulcers gastritis and even
certain types of gird you get a lot of
cool effects from eating plants certain
flavonoids are antimicrobial curatin has
been shown to inhibit eoli and another
pigment found in plants called antho
zanthin has been known to inhibit
salmona now I know some people are going
to say well wait a second I thought that
plants were filled with anti-nutrients
and we shouldn't be eating plants we
should all be doing carnivore well if
you have certain digestive problems
where you can't digest plant food well
then maybe you should but I'm not
recommending that you eat all plants
just a portion of your diet and probably
the biggest anti-nutrient that can
affect people is oxalates right but
that's really easy to solve if you just
avoid the plants that are high in
oxalates like you'd want to avoid the
spinach the beet green the Swiss chart
also avoid like nuts kiwi and of course
potato and if you're on the ketogenic
diet you don't have to worry about that
chocolate is another thing that is very
high in oxalate that you should avoid
and of course beans and grains are just
loaded with oxalates and especially
quinoa which is supposed to be like a
healthy grain so the point is that just
because uh plants have antinutrients
doesn't mean we should just completely
avoid all of them if you have gastritis
for example I found cabbage which also
is pretty high in sulfurane can be good
for that condition in fact it's probably
one of the only vegetables that I found
that you could actually digest without
discomfort so to increase the diversity
of your microbes in your gut you want to
increase a wide range of plant foods of
course not the ones I just mentioned
instead of just having like one type of
vegetable all the time you also want to
eat fermented products pickles and
sauerkraut and kimchi which are all
microbial enhanced you can also do raw
milk cheese or kefir which are loaded
with microbes another way to increase
the uh diversity of microbes is to try
to reduce your stress as much as
possible because stress actually really
affects the microbes in the gut which is
interesting fasting okay regular
intermittent fasting and periodic
prolong fasting also increases the
diversity and the health of your gut and
exercise can even help the microbiome so
it's all about uh creating an
environment where these microbes can
Thrive when you change environment and
you stress it out as in someone taking
an antibiotic boy you create all sorts
of shall I say like a shift of
relationship with those microbes so
before they were friendly now they're
unfriendly and this happens in the soil
as well if you for example start killing
off certain things in the soil uh
sometimes you'll have an increase in uh
fungus right and see in nature fungus
actually as one of their Foods they eat
bacteria and if there's not enough food
for them uh they start going after the
plant and start uh creating plant
infections because their environment is
not good there's just not enough food
well the exact same thing happens in our
guts as well when you take an antibiotic
you pretty much stress the fungus and
I'm talking about candida and then that
starts to affect you it starts creating
an unfriendly relationship where it
negatively affects you whereas before it
it's like in a symbiotic a relationship
that doesn't affect you uh we normally
have candida in our system and candida
normally doesn't affect us until we
change that relationship by changing the
environment if you are female and you're
going to have a baby I would highly
recommend that you breastfeed because
the first breast milk is called
colostrum and in that colostrum you have
the mother's immunity you're giving that
baby friendly bacteria that's going to
go the digestive system and start to
seed it and the same principle occurs
with plants um a seed is not just
something that has genetics that grow
into a plant a seed is really like
Noah's Arc it's filled with all sorts of
microbes inside and outside and if you
really understand that concept you know
that could change your U method of
handling seeds and how maybe you should
inoculate the seed and add some microbes
to the seed to help it to grow better A
lot of people should be taking
probiotics on a regular basis especially
if they take antibiotics at the same
time so I've covered a lot of different
areas of this topic but I think it's a
really important topic to have it sink
into your brain and there's a lot more
to talk about with the digestive system
there's a really important video that I
did that I'm going to put up right here
if you haven't seen it you should check
it out
