let's talk about detox in die-off
another name for this is herxheimer
reaction now what's happening is you're
either using a medical antibiotic or a
natural herbal antibiotic or some type
of remedy or even a probiotic which is
killing microbes and there's certain
things being broken down and released
and your immune system is spotting it
and reacting with it so the symptoms of
died off would be feeling like you have
the flu achiness inflammatory joints
fatigue sore throats rash lung mucus
coughing swollen glands headaches and
fever so all of these symptoms are
occurring because your own immune system
is creating them it's not really the
microbe it's your immune system creating
this inflammatory State and I've
personally done so many detox programs
and experimented with so many remedies
that I'll take something and end up in
bed for two weeks I wouldn't do this how
I did it like 15 year 20 years ago I
would go really slow I would test the
waters I would take a very small amount
and especially when you deal with even
probiotics I have a probiotic a liquid
probiotic with one person it can
actually help them with arthritis the
next person they can have a reaction
with it so I always recommend taking a
very small amount maybe a half a
teaspoon if you're taking a liquid
herbal detox take a very small amount
just to see how you feel because the
last thing you want to do is end up in
bed for two weeks completely sick now in
your mind you might be thinking oh this
is great
detoxing no you're not you're actually
just having an immune reaction where
your immune system is creating a whole
bunch of inflammation so if you started
a detox program and you have this
reaction and I'm not talking about
antibiotics I'm talking about some type
of herbal remedy I would instantly cut
back or stop it until you feel a lot
better okay then when you start it back
again go really really slow maybe even
take one drop of the thing or a fourth
of a capsule
just to test the waters and I would also
recommend having some activated charcoal
available or bentonite clay and you take
this and it can help to reduce the
reaction so this is how it works it
works on the principle of adsorption not
absorption so you have the endotoxin or
whatever is going on there and then
activated charcoal or bentonite clay
will start attracting around it okay and
cover the toxin and help you eliminate
it from the body
another good remedy would be malignant
'm and this is a trace mineral that's
very effective for died off from Candida
and then another one is NAC because this
actually will increase glutathione which
will help the liver counter some of the
free radicals that are building up from
this and lastly the question is what
herbal remedies are good detoxifiers
well it's those herbal remedies that
kill off microbes so that that's a long
list that could be oregano oil could be
even garlic it could be time could be
black walnut hauls or clove so I put a
couple links down below so you can look
at those things as well thanks for
watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
