today we're going to answer the question
can you actually do keto and
intermittent fasting if you have a
gallstone
the first question is
what is a gallstone made of now there
are several different types of
gallstones but the most common is the
cholesterol gallstone but all of them
have several ingredients in common they
contain some cholesterol they contain
some bilirubin which is a pigment as a
byproduct from the red blood cell they
have phosphates and calcium carbonate
okay so that's what makes up a gallstone
so the next question is what actually
causes a gallstone so it's a combination
of mainly two things but there's some
other things but mainly it's two things
too much cholesterol with too little
bile when you don't have enough bile you
get this super saturation of cholesterol
and it can form into a stone especially
if there's congestion within the
gallbladder and maybe the gallbladder is
not Contracting properly or something is
blocking it or you have sludge in there
that's what basically creates this Stone
oh and by the way if you haven't
subscribed to my video click the red
button down below somewhere down on this
side over here and that little bell icon
which allows you to get notifications
this way you can also find out when I do
my live q a each week so the most
important thing you need to know about
this video is that
the composition of a gallstone
is not the same thing as bile bile is
made in the liver up here
okay liver
and it drains down through a little tube
and it goes into the gallbladder which
is just a sac
and the purpose of the sac is to
concentrate bile salts so in the
gallbladder you have this really
concentrated solution to bile salts like
20 times concentrated
this bile salt that's super concentrated
is not the same consistency as what's in
a gallstone so sometimes people think
that a gallstone is really concentrated
bile a gallstone is created with the
deficiency of bile and at the same time
too much cholesterol so the majority of
a gallstone is made out of cholesterol
simply because there's not enough bile
there
so
so this is important because when you do
fasting you're going to be
concentrating the bowel even more and
that is not going to trigger a gallstone
so fasting does not cause gallstones at
all now the next thing you need to know
is what else can cause a super saturated
amount of cholesterol and that is a
situation where the gallbladder is not
Contracting anymore it's not releasing
its bile so it just sits there and
there's cholesterol that comes in there
and it forms Stones so if you're not
triggering the gallbladder to release
its contents over a long period of time
that could potentially cause a gallstone
so now the question is what actually
triggers the release of this bile
from the gallbladder what causes it to
contract well guess what
saturated fats
Etc the fats well guess what a ketogenic
diet is it's a high fat diet it's a low
carb high fat so when you do keto you're
going to be releasing a lot of this bile
on a regular basis if you add
intermittent fasting you're going to
concentrate the bile so these two things
right here keto and if done healthily
actually decrease the risk of gallstones
what increases the risk of gallstones is
a low-fat diet why because there's not
enough fat to trigger the release of
bile to dissolve the stone to keep it
from saturating
couple other things you need to know
high estrogen especially when a woman is
pregnant for example or on birth control
pills or hormone replacement therapy can
also trigger gallstones also High
insulin as in diabetics especially type
2 can also increase the risk of
gallstones and guess what keto is it's
the opposite of this you're normalizing
insulin you're lowering it so you can
improve the situation and the other
thing that you need to know is a common
treatment for gallstones is taking
purified bile salts Okay so
really gallstones are coming from too
little bile not too much all right
thanks for watching
and if you haven't already subscribed
click the red button below and that
little bell icon so you can be notified
of all the new videos that I'm going to
be releasing and I have some very cool
and interesting videos coming up in the
next coming weeks plus in addition to
that you'll be notified of the live q a
sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well so stay tuned for
more great content
