so this is where it all happens this is
my desk and you can see this is my
favorite photo right here okay I have
vegetables and everywhere so um you know
everyone wants to know like how do I
come up with all this information um
well I'll I'm going to tell you right
now it's a lot of study from early
morning to late night but probably the
most important thing is to get get the
scientific sources the textbooks and
study from those exclusively okay so the
main source that I use is this one right
here Dr Seuss okay amazing doctor this
one's called inside your outside okay
check this out this is
a actually quite
amazing different things are controlled
by each side of your brain the left side
helps you read and remember my
name the right helps you paint and play
music and sing together both sides help
you do everything but I bet you didn't
know this how big is your brain this is
quite a surprise your two fists together
are close to its size so your brain is
like this big isn't it amazing I mean
this doctor I mean he wrote a book on
Green Eggs and Ham where do you think I
got the idea of eating eggs for
breakfast from Dr Seuss okay amazing
amazing guy
