recently I stumbled on something very
fascinating relating to candida and I
want to share this with you now candida
is a fungal infection it's kind of like
a yeast infection and people can get it
in their mouth they can get it in their
private parts toenails and it usually
comes after an antibiotic as a side
effect because you have all these
bacteria that keep the yeast and fungus
and molds in check the great majority of
your microbiome in your gut is bacteria
but you have a small percentage of this
yeast and fungus and friendly candida so
everything is in Balance but when you
wipe out a lot of your bacteria you
create more space for this candida to
grow and become a bit uh pathogenic so
you get itchiness burning fatigue and
various symptoms from that you can even
get cracks in the corner of your mouth
about 20% of the time that's candida and
when I was in practice I would notice
that certain patients coming in had this
odor of ammonia and that's usually
coming from this candida overgrowth it
will change your pH okay it releases
ammonia from the breakdown products of
simple sugars when you go up on the pH
you make things more alkaline and it can
survive more so candida can actually
survive more of an alkaline environment
versus an acidic environment and this is
why when you have this good balance of
microbes in your large intestine it's on
the acidic side but candida changes the
ph and so it does it through its primary
fuel which is sugar okay I'm gonna come
back to that at the end but I want to
share something very interesting there's
other conditions that lower your immune
system that cause this overgrowth as
well HIV or Aids if you have an organ
transplant if you were on prednizone
like steroids if you're pregnant or if
you eat a lot of sugar especially
fructose all of them eat either create
or have at the same time a vitamin D
deficiency so when I was looking at
Vitamin D I noticed that it had an
antifungal property and when I looked
into a little bit more I found out it's
a really good effective broad spectrum
antimicrobial now probably because it
really helps build up your immune system
your defenses and all of those items I
mentioned really have a effect on the
immune system if you have Candida
there's three things you need to do
start taking vitamin D maybe 20 30,000
IUS immediately number two cut out the
fuel for candida its primary fuel is
glucose if you stop eating sugar right
now go on keto you can starve it to
death and three start consuming
Probiotic foods like a little sauerkraut
kimchi uh fermented pickles or maybe a
little uh non-sweetened kefir so I just
just wanted to keep this video real
simple short to the point great remedy
to help someone if they're struggling
with candida and if you're not signed up
on my private email on my website
drberg.com I give away a lot of content
that it's not on YouTube if you want to
check it out I put a link Down Below in
the description I will see you on the
other
side
