hi guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about chronic right
rhomboid pain and tightness okay what is
the rhomboid if you're looking at the
back we have the right scapula right
here right shoulder left shoulder and we
have this little muscle right between
the scapula in the spine this is called
the rhomboid okay there's another muscle
that connects to the top of this scapula
and it goes right to the neck the lower
neck and that's called the levator
scapula muscle because it elevates the
scapula so these two muscles are
involved in a lot of chronic pain and
tightness I mean how many people that
you know that have these knots right in
that side and they go to the
chiropractor they go to the physical
therapist they go to the doctor they get
a massage and it never gets any better
so I'm here to tell you that the pain or
trigger points in this area are not a
problem with this area this is a
referred problem which means it's coming
from some other place okay where the
gallbladder the gallbladder or liver
refers pain through a nerve called the
frenic nerve that comes right up up
underneath this area right here and
right to this one spot okay so just to
do a simple test um what you would want
to do is you want to take your hands and
press underneath the right rib cage
about 2 inches down straight in so you
press in there okay and you hold that
you might want to feel around to just
find where the gallbladder is and just
gently put pressure there there for
about I don't know 30 seconds okay and
then re-evaluate and see how your neck
and back feel the pain should either
decrease significantly or completely go
away and if it doesn't then we know
there is a problem right there so I just
want you to do this test right now and
let me know down below if your pain goes
away I would say 95% of the time it will
completely go away if not improve
significantly okay personally I had a
problem with this for about 12 years it
haunted me I went to the best
chiropractors I had the best massage
therapist working on this and it would I
would get the treatment it would last
like for about an hour and it would keep
coming back little did I know it was the
gallbladder okay all right what are we
going to do about it okay so number one
you need to change your diet okay there
are certain foods that are aggravating
the gallbladder and the liver that's
going to give you the most relief it's
going to give you significant relief I
put a link down below of exactly what
you should be eating if you have a
sluggish gallbladder I'm not saying you
have gall stones but I am saying if this
relieves it there might be some
congestion in the gallbladder could be a
liver issue as well so click some of the
links below check it out and give me
your
feedback hey guys definitely subscribe
and I will keep you in the know no that
doesn't make sense I'll keep you
informed of future events how about that
all right cool hey if you haven't
already subscribed press this little
button down below okay thanks
