so I want to explain the real reason why
gastric bypass works for weight loss and
diabetes now that being said I'm not
recommending gastric bypass ok there's
other ways of losing weight and
improving this situation right here ok
but this is why it works you got the
stomach right here got the small
intestine right here here's the pancreas
what causes weight gain is high levels
of insulin okay what prevents you from
losing weight is high levels of insulin
there is a hormone in the small
intestine called GIP gastric inhibitory
polypeptide you don't need to know that
the name but it's just GIP this hormone
gets triggered every time you eat it
sends a signal to the pancreas telling
the pancreas to increase insulin okay
when you do gastric bypass they're
cutting up our the stomach and taking
this whole area right here and just
bypassing it ok so this is no longer
involved there by taking this out of the
picture and lowering your insulin so
that's why of course you're going to
lose weight and you're gonna improve
your diabetes but it comes with a
package there's a lot of side effects
and I think it's really unnecessary
because all you really need to do is cut
down the carbohydrates the things that
stimulate this do healthy ketosis and
intermittent fasting so you're not
eating so frequently because every time
you eat you trigger this hormone and
that way you can avoid getting this
procedure but if you want to know why it
works
that's why thanks for watching so I hope
you're coming to the keto Health Summit
coming up in October so I want to
quickly comment on what we're gonna do
that's different from other conventions
ok the problem with these other
conventions is they give you information
over a load ok it's so much data that
you're basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only going to
cover the most important things that
make a huge difference now there are
three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory in concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
