today let's talk about the number one
best probiotic for autoimmune conditions
so the question is what is an autoimmune
condition it's a condition where your
own immune system is attacking its own
tissues what's really happening with the
immune system is we have two parts of
the immune system that are out of
balance we have either a very low amount
of this thing called regulatory te-
cells and then at the same time we have
high amounts of these other two immune
cells all you really need to know to
make this really simple is that these
T-Rex cell
prevent autoimmune diseases so it's all
about calming down the inflammation
after your immune system has done its
job the t- cells turn it off so the
t-reg cells are all about appropriate
response but the problem is in the flip
side it can sometimes get out of control
and attack the wrong thing the best way
to understand this is to look at a
thermostat autoimmune diseases are
running too hot there's too much
inflammation the question is how do we
take an autoimmune disease and bring it
to an optimal level it just so happens
that there's a natural way to do this
but I think it's important to understand
the root problem of all autoimmune
diseases one thing you really need to
know is that when there's inflammation
in the gut okay sometimes you don't
initially feel it but inflammation
blocks the function of vitamin D3
vitamin D3 cannot work in the presence
of of inflammation vitamin D influences
over
2500 genes it's involved in every part
of the immune system so if the T-Rex
cells do not get enough vitamin D then
they can't work they can't grow they
can't function they're going to be disys
functional and many people including a
lot of doctors don't realize that we
have a such a mass uh problem with low
vitamin D there is a condition called
vitamin D resistance and vitamin D
resistance is at the cell level right at
the re ctors for vitamin D3 you see you
can actually test someone's vitamin D in
the blood and it can be perfectly normal
but if they have vitamin D resistance
despite having a normal blood level
they're going to be extremely deficient
and many people don't realize that the
great majority of the population is
vitamin D resistant in your blood what
they're testing when they're testing for
vitamin D is the inactive version
they're not testing for what's happening
at the cell level but the vitamin D you
need for the immune system is more like
8,000 to 10,000 just to maintain it and
not only that you need it on a daily
basis rarely is anyone getting that
amount unless they're out getting a lot
of sun or taking a supplement so if you
compound a inflammatory gut problem with
low vitamin D it's a perfect storm for
developing an autoimmune disease and on
top of that you have doctors or you
might have things on the news or online
that say that vitamin D you got to be
careful you don't want to become toxic
just so you know it's extremely rare and
you would have to take hundreds of
thousands of international units every
single day for months before you develop
any toxicity so when we're talking about
10,000 iuse we're not even in the
ballpark for even talking about toxicity
and the reason I'm even bringing that up
is to penetrate through that vitamin D
resistance that so many people have to
create a therapeutic effect you're going
to have to use levels that are much
higher than $10,000 use you're probably
going to have to go up 20 30 40
50,000 international units every single
day to penetrate that resistance to
create an effect on the t-reg cells so
that's number one number two missing
microbes you have thousands of different
species of microbes in your gut and they
do a lot more than you might think and
there's two specific microbes that are
involved in helping you prevent
autoimmune diseases in that they greatly
affect the t-reg cells as well as
suppressing these other inflammatory
immune cells over here and the first one
is called be infantis or it might be
pronounced infantis I'm not sure that
help develop our nervous system this
microb is highly sensitive to
antibiotics to steroids to junk foods to
a lot of things in the environment and
so what I'm saying is about 70% of the
population is just missing seeing this
microbe right here and this microbe is
very important in helping you support
this t-reg cell Al rudai is another
really key microbe and unfortunately it
too is very sensitive to broadspectrum
antibiotics 97% of the population is
missing this microbe too the other thing
that's really cool about this Al rudai
is it helps to increase this hormone
called oxytocin which is probably one of
the most potent antistress
hormones ever now why is that important
we can keep our immune system healthy
you have to realize when we're going
through stress we have high levels of
cortisol cortisol suppresses the immune
system normally should have like 35
billion white blood cells these are the
soldiers that do all the work and when
you're exposed to cortisol this
suppresses the entire immune system just
think about what is the treatment to
autoimmune disease prazone what is
prazone it's a steroid it's a synthetic
version of cortisol it shuts down the
entire immune system we also shut down
the healing part of the immune system
this is why people that have had too
many steroid shots basically destroy
their joints it acts as an antibiotic so
vitamin D is not an immune suppressant
that shuts the whole thing down only the
parts that are overactive so this microb
helps to kind of cool things down but
this has a bigger effect over the entire
immune system and I don't recommend just
taking these in a pill I recommend
cultivating these with a dairy product
to increase these and that's going to
help recede the small intestine start
healing the small intestine and then
start to build up the te reg cells so
number one vitamin D is essential number
two you reestablish the microbes that
are usually missing and number three
selenium now what does selenium do well
that's a trace mineral you only need it
in small amounts uh I would recommend
like 200 micrograms not milligrams but
selenium has a very unique function for
the immune system if you're low in
selenium you're going to have higher
amounts of these two inflammatory cells
and remember in autoimmune they're
already too high so we have to lower
this so selenium is going to help lower
these two cells right here also selenium
is going to help lower the antibodies
and I'm talking about the it's called
Auto antibodies which are involved in
this self attack your own immune system
is attacking itself selenium can help
turn that down you can also take it as a
supplement and the last point I'm going
to bring up about this is prolong
fasting when you do prolong fasting you
can greatly increase the t-reg cells and
there's a lot of people that are getting
rid of inflammation by doing periodic
prolong fasting I'm talking about like
three days at a time you're not eating
anything you're drinking water but
you're not eating anything you can
greatly improve your immune system
system to the point where you can create
new stem cells to build up your immune
system so these three things right here
are the most important things to help
shift this very hot immune system
problem bring it back to an Optimum
temperature so you can put this
autoimmune disease back in remission now
since I spent a little more time in this
vitamin D if you have not seen this
video on vitamin D it's probably a good
idea to check it out and I put that up
right here
