hi guys want to do a quick video on
rosacea someone asked a question what do
you do for rosacea okay so I want to
talk about first of all one of the big
mistakes that people make and then what
to do there's been a huge connection
between rosacea which is your skin your
cheeks become really red and it looks
like there's broken blood vessels so you
have this it almost looks like a rash on
on your cheeks okay there's a huge
connection to something called SIBO okay
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
okay this is a situation where you have
bacteria that normally should be in the
large colon is now growing into the
small intestine okay and it's growing
where it should not be you should not
have a lot of bacteria and the small
intestine most of it should be in the
large colon and here's what you don't
want to do you don't want to start
adding probiotics
why because you already have too many
microbes probiotics are going to give
you more microbes so you don't want to
add more to the mix so this is a big fat
no no okay
and then you also don't want to add
fiber because guess what these microbes
that are in small intestine eat fiber so
adding more fiber is going to be really
a bad idea okay so here's here's what we
need to do you need to cut down the
amount of vegetables that you're
consuming right now okay this is one of
the reasons why the carnivore diet
actually helps people with digestive
problems because the microbes don't have
anything to eat and if you have an
overgrowth and you do all proteins
animal proteins it can actually help
balance some of the microbial gut that's
actually an overgrowth situation but the
point is you want to go smaller amount
of vegetables you can have as some but
just don't add too much because you're
gonna feed the microbes and we're trying
to get rid of these this microbial
overgrowth one of the most important
things to do is write down here to
acidify this stomach because these
microbes can't live in an acid
environment so AB adding outside of
vinegar and betaine hydrochloride would
be essential and you can
the min tablets you can get them even
combined and I would probably do
probably like eight to nine tablets per
meal why because we want to acidify the
stomach in this way it'll actually help
kill off some of these microbes the
other thing is thy purpose of the
stomach acid is to kill off microbes in
the food so if your stomach acids are
low going into this even before you get
it there's certain microbes that can
pass through the stomach without being
killed grow in the small intestine where
they shouldn't okay so one of the causes
of this is basically a low stomach acid
and that could come from a number of
things antibiotics anti-acids junk food
taking too much baking soda okay a lot
of people use that thinking it's a real
good thing how do you know if you have
low stomach acids well you probably have
heartburn or acid reflux because if
there's not enough that they'll won't
close and the acid will kind of come up
through that little valve now now taking
clove oregano and garlic is really a
great natural antibiotic which will
actually kill some of the unfriendly
Candida bacteria and pathogens in there
so you want to consume these right here
that will help you the other thing
that's really important is to do in a
minute fasting why because there's a
certain process that happens between the
meals that actually goes into the gut
and cleans any residue of food and
particles and pushes it down into the
digestive tract into the large bowel but
if you're eating too frequently and
never you never have the chance to do
that so if you do longer in a minute
fasting this is a very positive thing to
clean out the gut okay very very
important and one more point about this
is the real problem with this is that
not only are going to get excess gas
bloating and even kind of pain in your
stomach but you're going to get
malnutrition because these microbes are
gonna pretty much eat a lot of your food
that are in the small intestine so you
don't have a chance to absorb them so
you're eating food yet you're hungry
right after you eat you're not
to be satisfied so anyway these are two
things you shouldn't do and these are
things you should do to help this
condition right here thanks for watching
so we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
