hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna talk about something called
spinal stenosis okay stenosis is the
Greek word that means narrowing you can
have stenosis of the arteries we're
going to talk about stenosis of the
spinal column
you know the spine that goes from your
head all the way down to your lower back
this condition basically there's just
not enough space in that column so it
prep that presses on the spinal cord all
right so it's narrowing of this space
pressing on the cord causing pain and it
could be in the neck it could be in the
low back it could be in the mid back or
sciatica down the legs or even pain down
the arms okay so that's pretty much what
it is now what is the cause of this okay
if you look it up it'll say the cause is
age-related you're just getting older
bone spurs thinning of the discs which
kind of collapse the space as well
arthritis okay that's what it says but
what is the real underlying cause of
this because a lot of people have this
and they don't really know what to do
about it other than surgery okay so what
is the actual cause of spinal stenosis
okay
now normally there is a certain factor
or a certain chemical that is supposed
to inhibit bone spurs and the formation
of calcium deposits in the soft tissues
normally there should not be an excess
of calcium deposits and the ligaments
around the spinal column and when that
occurs it can constrict and narrow the
spinal column
okay well that factor is called MGP long
word for it is carboxylated matrix GLA
protein if you really want to know that
so when you're deficient in MGP you're
not going to be able to get rid of the
spur formation or the excess calcium
deposits so MGP is a potent inhibitor of
not just vascular calcification that
makes your arteries hardened but joint
calcification as well it basically helps
you bind calcium and
move it in places that it shouldn't be
and puts it in the bone where it should
be okay so the question is why is this
missing it's really not missing it just
isn't it's missing the activator there's
a certain activating a vitamin that is
missing that's supposed to turn kick
this and turn the thing on and that's
called vitamin k2 okay
you probably heard of vitamin k1 vitamin
k2 is all about triggering this compound
to then mobilize calcium from the wrong
place and put it into the correct place
okay vitamin k2 is usually deficient in
the diet because many people do not
consume grass-fed products because it's
it's really only in the grass-fed animal
products it's in the grass-fed dairy
grass-fed meats
it's in egg yolks from chickens that are
grass fed like pasture raised not grain
fed any animal products that are fed
grains you're not going to see a lot of
vitamin k2 so you definitely want to do
the grass-fed now if you're a vegetarian
you might want to consume something
called NATO which is a fermented soy
product which you will see by the Mackay
- so one of the factor that could be
diminishing the absorption would be your
gall bladder or your liver is damaged
because you need normal bile to absorb
this fat soluble vitamin k2 alright so
if there's not enough bile or goblet
problem or don't have a gall bladder
that could be the reason why so I put a
link down below of the natural version
of vitamin k2 which is called mk7 I
don't recommend doing the mk4 version
that is synthetic alright and I also put
some research down below for additional
information about k2 but just make sure
you start consuming more grass-fed
especially if you have spinal stenosis
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press this little
button down below ok thanks
