very unfortunately uh we all go through
stress we can't avoid it so today I'm
going to talk about how uh stress can
rob you of certain nutrition now of
course we all know that junk foods will
do it uh a lack of eating the right
foods will do it but stress also will
deplete you of many different nutrients
I want to discuss that so you can avoid
that because once you're deficient in
certain nutrients the deficiency itself
can alter your ability to to react to
stress and recover from stress first
let's dive into the deficiencies that
can be created from stress and I think
you already know that stress can also
cause disease too right it can cause
ulcers heart attacks it can cause
osteoporosis it can cause high blood
pressure it can cause anxiety depression
all sorts of mood problems and it can
also suppress your immune system to the
point where you develop infections or
maybe a virus that was in remission
comes out of remission then when people
are under stress a lot of times they'll
take a medication that deals with
anxiety or depression well like if you
take an
SSRI that alone can create a deficiency
of certain nutrients specifically
vitamin B2 and co-enzyme Q10 and other
uh mood altering medications can deplete
you a vitamin B6 so here you are trying
to take something to handle the mood
when it creates more of a deficiency
which gives you more of that problem so
this video is more about the person who
is under this sustained chronic mental
stress the top two or actually three
nutrients that will be deficient
Magnesium number one zinc number two and
number three is B1 thyine the effects
that magnesium and zinc and B1 can give
you are anti-anxiety and antistress now
when we're dealing with stress we're
really dealing with the adrenal gland
and the two main stress hormones
involved are number one cortisol and
this is one of my favorite books on
cortisol CBA Collection of medical
illustrations volume 4 endocrine system
and it goes through all the effects that
happen when you have too much cortisol
and when we're talking about nutrient
deficiencies we're talking mainly about
uh the loss of potassium as well as the
retention of sodium okay and that's
going to give you hypertension so the
more stress someone has the more
pottassium they need and they don't need
to be consuming a lot of salty foods
which is pretty much the opposite of
what most people do they might get home
from a stressful day and have salty
chips and all these salty snacks are
very low in potassium in fact The more
stress you go through and this is very
important the more you need to eat
healthy okay you should just probably
write that down the more stress that I
go through the better my diet should be
unfortunately most people don't do that
they go for the sweets they go for
alcohol they go for Junk Foods when
you're under stress you should not cut
back on your protein you should maybe
increase your protein uh primarily
things like red meat or uh some type of
meat that has zinc it has amino acids it
has the B vitamins like B1 things like
that combined with big leafy green
salads to give you the potassium and
magnesium that you need so definitely
avoid sugar if you're going through
stress um just as a side note to that
it's very interesting to observe the
nutritional deficiencies that occur with
consuming sugar are very similar to the
Nutritional deficiencies that occur when
you're under stress so apparently both
of those items create this oxidative
stress in your body and deplete you of
the same nutrients now another key
nutrient to allow cortisol to work
properly and cortisol has everything to
do with reacting to stress so let's say
if you stood up really fast and you got
dizzy and you fainted that means your
cortisol is not really working that well
your body cannot adapt appropriately to
this stress State now it can also be
adrenaline as well so you have both of
those hormones involved in the stress
response and the key vitamin for that is
B5 so B5 keeps the cortisol in balance
it keeps the inflammation down it's it's
really good for wound healing and many
other things and another point on this
uh book here on the cortisol is if you
are under chronic stress you may deplete
your amino acids and that's why you
should maybe not go low with your
proteins have more high quality protein
not excessive but just sufficient
amounts two other uh nutrients that get
uh depleted when you go through chronic
stress calcium and vitamin D and this is
why a person can end up especially after
menopause with osteopenia so calcium and
vitamin D vitamin D is important for the
immune system vitamin D is important for
pain inflammation preventing high blood
pressure and calcium is also important
not just for the bone but for many
different things and just as a side note
to that if you are deficient in calcium
you may find that you have this chronic
cough okay and you may find that um
you're tired but you just can't go to
sleep there's something preventing you
from just drifting off into a nice
relaxed sleep that's a Calcium
deficiency uh not to mention you could
have cramps as well that could be a
calcium or a magnesium deficiency now I
talked a little bit about cortisol but
adrenaline is the other hormone too much
adrenaline can deplete you of and I
already mentioned this vitamin D as well
as Vitamin C so we do need Vitamin C for
adrenal uh help especially to make
enough adrenaline and this is all about
being able to react to stress correctly
but not just that your ability to
recover from stress as well so the
vitamin C is a precursor for certain
hormones and
neurotransmitters if you were to measure
this whole stress and Recovery situation
you're basically measuring the autonomic
nervous system that splits up into two
parts the sympathetic which is a flut
fight and then over here you have the
parasympathetic which is rest and digest
and there is a great tool that uses HRV
heart rate variability now I may at the
time of you watching this video I have
information on where you can get your
own device to do your own research on
your own body um but if I don't I will
very soon and you can get this device
and I use it in practice that can help
you find out where you are at in this
stress response because over time maybe
you had a really good response and then
it's gotten kind of weaker and weaker
and weaker to the point where it's it's
not very good you can actually visualize
that you can also look at and visualize
the power of reacting to stress your
power of doing that as well as your
recovery reserves okay that is important
information to know what you should be
doing exercise wise and what you should
be doing nutrient wise as well as you go
through that it's important to be able
to know physically what's going on with
your body and have a feedback tool so
you can see if what you're doing is
working or not so there's a couple
things I would highly recommend that you
do the more stress you go through the
better you eat the more stress you go
through the better you work on your
sleep The more stress you go through the
more exercise that you do to release
this stress and like I said before you
can't escape stress a little bit of
stress is good but this chronic stress
is terrible and most the stress right
now is being put out in the environment
and a lot of it unfortunately is
manufactured if you were just to watch
you know hours and hours of the news
every day you'd probably be underneath
your bed in a state of fear and what
that does as a consequence to your
physical body it's just not healthy now
because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side I did a video that you
may not even be aware of to counter
stress okay that involve a wide range of
things if you haven't seen that video
it's an awesome video to watch and I put
that up right
here
