are you ready for the keys see hey guys
we didn't do the clap okay let me do the
clapper okay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hi guys welcome back today we are gonna
make something really delicious quiche k
all different kinds you're gonna like
this yeah so what kind of we makin well
first I just want to say that we asked
you guys what you wanted to learn to
make and a lot of people said things
like casseroles and simple things and
I'm a guy who hates to cook and I'm a
busy mom and pretty much then we just
said we prepared what I like which is
key right well Keisha is great because
not only can you make it in advance and
put it in the fridge you can even freeze
the crust you can freeze the egg mixture
but one batch of egg mixture double
triple batch maybe of egg mixture and
you can make a huge variety of quiche
and then that you can freeze and that
you can have for lunch breakfast lunch
and dinner yeah yeah so we have what I
did to her that point was and now the
pie crust recipe is already on the
website so I didn't go through that
again so what I did was I made a ton of
that quiche mixture which you're gonna
learn how to make in a minute and filled
six different crusts with different
things yeah and the actual cross is not
wheat it is made with almond flour yeah
so easy almond sauce easy super easy
it's a couple ingredients and really
fast to make I also make those you know
five or six at a time different bowls
put this stuff in throw in the food
processor boom boom boom boom boom boom
boom boom boom boom sounds good so what
flavor is this okay this is chicken and
sharp cheddar okay so let me see what
this tastes like
no I like that I totally like it I
totally like it it's really good I was
just playing with you what are you doing
no it's good
that's great no approaching an egg's I
mean it's close the secret when you
decide you want to key stuff in it the
secret is to saute cook the meat saute
the vegetables ahead of time and then
you're gonna have the pie crust and you
put the ingredients the innards the
chunky stuff chunky bits in your crust
first put as much in and I like my
quiche packed I don't like to find any
old one piece bacon every seven bites I
hear you know I'm talking about I hear
you sister when you pour the egg on top
of that to the very top okay what's this
one this is all veggie veggie all kinds
of veggies I just sauteed the vegetables
first mm-hmm I don't have any cheese in
here it's just all saute veggies
good mmm that's nice I like that too hmm
now I already sampled the one that I
really really really like before I said
please don't eat these keys I couldn't
stop it so we'll get to that last but
that's why you don't see a photo of the
entire quiche because it was half gone
by the time we got you that's the
problem is she's she's a good cook and I
can't stop this one is bacon onion
cheddar bacon onions everybody love
bacon pocket making good mm-hmm
I like that a lot
okay that's great now does this one have
bacon - no this is ham and Swiss hmm we
try that I would like to put you know we
grew chives in our garden this year and
I dried them in the food dehydrator I
was like to put some chives in every
recipe mm-hmm I think adds a nice flavor
I like that one too
mmm Wow it's so creamy is great mm-hmm
and what's this so spinach we're going
kind of fast here spinach and salmon
salmon salmon let me see it this I like
to get some fish into the recipes mmm
unique not bad
unique and not bad I mean comparatively
speaking women how do I look
he says you've read today fine okay so
he doesn't like this salmon fair enough
now this is his all-time theme this is
really good let me tell you what's in
here go ahead you have it's a sausage
what kind of sausage is what you're
called sausage that's a type of sausage
it's like a it's like a what's that John
Dewey sausage or no I don't know it's uh
I don't know it's a spicy red sausage
and it's not in links or anything it's
just a bulk sausage when you read the
how-to instructions it'll it'll be there
but it's a really good sausage and it's
grass-fed and it's got um cheese I got
at the farmers market the sausage
chatter that narrows it down
mm-hmm mm-hmm that's my favorite right
there you like that one
and then I just for decoration on that
one I just sliced some tomatoes I mean
quiche
you can use anything you want I I'm even
hesitant to put recipes for all of these
because basically you can go into your
refrigerator and take any leftover you
have and put it in or any vegetable any
meat that you like and put it in the
crust and add that really simple quiche
egg mixture and and then to you have
food for a week breakfast lunch and
dinner and pair it with a nice salad
that's right of course if you're
watching my videos you probably just do
two meals or maybe even one but you eat
the whole thing
SurveyMonkey let's go right in to show
them how to make this
you ready they eat the whole quiche they
well depends how big they're they're
like 250 pounds the quiche know the
person all right okay
[Music]
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that runs
