so I'm always researching different body
problems and I've done several videos on
gout and uric acid and I found a remedy
that I think you should know about if
you have gout we take a look at the
mechanism of how certain gout
medications work most of them work by
inhibiting an enzyme that goes from
purine into uric acid okay so they block
this enzyme called athine oxidase so of
course the question is is there any
natural thing that can do the same thing
and the answer is yes I'm assuming that
you know that you have to get off
alcohol beer fructose right to help get
rid of this condition but there's a lot
of people who do that that still have
gout and gout can be devastating
especially trying to walk because it
affects your foot I mean it can affect
the entire body because you're limping
and shuffling along and all because of
this one joint in your toe humans have
lost the enzyme to help break down uric
acid what have we gained well we've
gained a survival mechanism to help us
store fat during times of starvation
which is probably not exciting you but
that's what happened but I don't want to
get into that topic I want to just get
into this natural remedy that is quite
fascinating and that remedy is a plant
chemical let's say polyphenol called
sulfurane maybe you've heard of this
from the work of John Hopkins where they
did studies and found that it um helps
with cancer and they try to get the
patents on Broccoli Sprouts they
couldn't get it and so they apparently
dropped it like a hot potato because you
don't see a lot of research by them in
this area apparently if you can't patent
it that organization is not going to
invest a lot of money into promoting it
because it's something that anyone can
actually grow in their Garden broccoli
Sprouts but you can also get them in
pill form but they're mostly in broccoli
sprouts and radish Sprouts there's
several interesting things about
sulfurane number one one it's
bioavailability I mean it really gets
absorbed way more than any other
polyphenol it has like an 80%
bioavailability look at the chart that I
have up here silly Marin
73% bioavailable curcumin that's in the
taric right 1% bioavailability cortin
which is only 4% sulfurane
80% so apparently it goes in the body
like a rocket ship there's not a lot of
barriers another thing that's really
interesting about the sulfurane is that
it has the ability to
activate other genes and enzymes to get
rid of poisons in the body and to take a
poisonous carcinogen and turn into
something that's no longer cancer
causing it can activate over a hundred
defense genes genes that protect itself
against certain things but relating to
gout these studies were not done humans
however it's definitely worth it to try
it out and the cool thing about it is
that the side effects are virtually nil
compared to medications so they found
that it helps restore the nefron this is
the kidney cell's ability to filter
because uric acid is made by our body
and filtered out through the kidneys so
many times a person will have a problem
at the kidney level and the kidneys are
not able to deal with this uric acid and
they just kind of dump it into the
tissues so
sulfurane helps this filter filter
better it also helps upregulate
antioxidants to help reduce free radical
damage which relates to reducing
inflammation I mean just think about
these crystals that are forming in your
big toe and how much free radical damage
that's going on massive it's a war with
your immune system so
sulfurane helps to regulate the reaction
of the immune system to the crystals and
the inflammation from many different
angles it also increases microbial
diversity which can also take a load of
this uric acid out of your body because
your microbes help to dismantle and
degrade uric acid so sulfurane looks
very promising it's not that expensive
virtually zero side effects and it could
be just that missing puzzle piece that
you've been looking for now if you
haven't seen my other video on yuric
acid and gwn I put it up right here
check it out
