hi guys dr. Berg here listen I wanted to
do a video on this consideration that
some people have where they basically
say I can't do low carbs because I love
food too much okay so if you have
friends or family that are in the
situation will you yourself just hear me
out
okay number one you can eat pleasure
foods when you're doing a low carb
ketogenic which is a fat-burning program
you can eat pledgeted you can have some
type of bread you could have certain
types of English muffins or waffles or
pancakes or cookies or chocolate type
things you could have those desserts
okay you just need to make them
correctly without sugar I will put a
link down below of a whole bunch of
great recipes that you can make that
will really give you pleasure okay so
that's a fact number one number two
you're not going to be hungry you're
going to feel satisfied on this okay
because when you handle the insulin
factor which is causing the blood sugar
issue and that's why we're lowering
carbs your hunger goes away because
you're running on your own body fat
you're not dependent on this this food
that you're constantly up and down so
your moods going to be better and you're
not going to be hungry because we don't
expect you to be starving all the time
that's not a correct way to lose weight
three you will not crave carbs once
you're in full ketosis you might not
believe me but you won't crave carbs if
you're doing it correctly and you won't
feel deprived you're going to feel very
satisfied because you're going to be
running on your own body fat number four
the sensation from a healthy body is
much greater than the sensation from
food now you just you're just going to
have to trust me on that one but it is I
mean I'm healthy I feel like I'm house
I've been working on health for a long
time that I feel really good I would
never in a million years go back to my
junk foods because now I know and once
you can feel that you won't go back okay
number five you're going to have more
energy you're going to have more
vitality you're going to have more
endurance you can have more strength
you're going to sleep better so you're
going to more cognitive function more
memory
and higher carb eating eating plants
will put you in a situation where your
memory is going and you create a lot of
long-term health problems number six
you're not going to lose weight unless
you're low in the carbs because low in
carbs will lower insulin and insulin is
the key hormone that determines whether
you're going to burn fat or gain fat or
make that so it's really important that
especially if you want to lose weight to
lower the carbs and also if you want to
ever have a chance to come off your
medication I mean think about how many
medical conditions are connected to
higher insulin not just diabetes high
cholesterol high blood pressure cancer
lives on sugar risk of stroke
Alzheimer's cognitive problems so many
problems our result are resulting from
the high insulin so coming off your
medications it's going to be a criteria
to go on a low-carb eating plan alright
so I hope I convinced you go ahead and
check out the link below and get started
where am I going with this press the
subscribe button forgot the last part
and I'm going to see you next time am I
going to I will press up please and yeah
you'll get future updates that's right
updates I knew there was a word press
the subscribe button and I will keep you
updated on the future events
