hey guys welcome back in this video
we're going to talk about lemon juice
and your pH okay so now there's some
confusion about lemon juice since it's
citric acid it's why is that good for
uric acid would an acid help an acid
well in the body lemon juice turns into
an alkaline substance so it alkalizes
okay and uric acid is the byproduct of
certain protein called purine and
earings are high in liver organ Meats
like liver and kidney Game Meats turkey
sardines Seafood like Herring and
scallops
beer um and
caffeine and other things as well but
those are the main ones and all that
turns into uric acid now it's not just a
matter of you eating those Foods
resulting in uh uric acid crystals which
turns into gout there's really another
reason these are aggravating factors and
it has to do with your way that your
kidneys are processing this uric acid so
there's two other big factors that I
find that if you can correct these you
can still get away with eating these
foods and not end up with high levels of
uric acid which turns into the gout
which is pain in the big toe and other
joints insulin when the insulin is too
high you have high levels of uric acid
that's why if you have insulin
resistance you're a diabetic a lot of
times that comes with uh high uric acid
and gout okay and then ketosis the thing
that I'm recommending everyone actually
do it can actually give you too much
uric acid as well so um simply because
the ketones compete with the uric acid
and they tend to go back and forth and
the chemistry that ends up with higher
levels of uric acid so you don't need to
know that all you need to know is that
you need to start consuming more lemon
juice in your diet to keep your uric
acid low because Uric um the citric acid
in lemon juice neutralizes the uric acid
crystals okay so it actually improves
gout so yes you can uh make sure you
eliminate eliminate these from the diet
but make sure you just add the lemon
it's really really simple it'll actually
um help you keep the uric acid very very
low so thanks for watching
