hey guys I wanted to create a quick
video on a recent question where someone
asked I'm sensitive to the Sun am i
allergic to the Sun when this person
goes on the Sun they break out they get
hives like what is up with that well
there is a certain condition called
photosensitivity which you are sensitive
to mainly the UV light okay and you get
hives or skin reactions or blisters so
this condition is a vitamin b3
deficiency
now there's two forms of b3 you have
niacin and niacin amide now if you ever
took b3 and got that reaction where you
have this flushing response you turn red
that's because it was in the form of
niacin if you want to avoid that you can
just take NASA divine if you don't light
it go ahead and take the niacin all
right so that's what the person needs
for sensitivity to the Sun hey you
probably already subscribed but if you
haven't press this little button down
below and I will keep you updated
