hey guys in this video I want to talk
about what to put your attention on when
you dookied Oh in a minute fasting okay
the whole goal is to get healthy to lose
weight not lose weight to get healthy a
very important principle if you haven't
seen my video on it I put a link down
below but that the guiding stable
principle that you should follow and
there are various indicators of health
okay that are way better than the weight
loss it being an indicator okay I'm
going to tell you why when we're done
but here's what you should do when you
start out you should get a chart and
list these items right here energy
especially in your head okay
sleep sleep quality memory focus
inflammation overall mood vision and
stress tolerance and go ahead and rate
all these things from zero to ten okay
and every week make a log out of it and
rewrite this and put your attention up
because whatever you put your attention
on is going to improve okay and so if
you put your attention on losing weight
that's a negative goal your body doesn't
like to lose anything okay so it's all
about gaining health not losing
something it's kind of like if you're
married and say honey we're gonna have a
goal we're gonna fight less this week
we're gonna fight five times less this
week that would not be good that
wouldn't work so this is where you want
to put your attention on these
indicators right here forget about the
weight right now that will come and if
you do that it'll come faster because
you don't want to add more stress to the
situation if you don't lose weight
because a lot of times you'll lose water
weight in a plateau or you're gaining
muscle mass and you know your size might
not shrink at first but as you do this
and you improve these I promise that
your clothes will start fitting looser
and you eventually lose the weight that
you want so the strategy the primary
strategy to do this is on carbs
what makes keto keto what makes keto
work
is keeping your carbs low so that's the
primary thing you should have your
attention on when you eat and when you
look at food keep the carbs low between
20 and 50 but even lower if you want to
lose more weight and then the second
focus would be to keep your vegetables
at a high level keep improving the
quality of vegetables that you eat and
eat more of them very very important to
improve your health a lot of the leafy
greens are loaded with vitamin A it's a
pre vitamin A but it's still vitamin A
and that nutrient alone will really help
your vision your skin and prevent a lot
of health problems and the third thing
is staying consistent okay
so just stay consistent doing this give
it time and let your body get healthy
and do it long enough because there's a
lag time here of feeding your body and
then letting the body renew and get
healthy and use fat as its fuel all
right thanks for watching hey I
appreciate your attention and if you're
enjoying these videos go ahead and
subscribe and I will definitely keep you
updated on future events live events and
webinars that we're going to do very
soon
