hi guys had another question related to
the quality of sleep in working third
shift okay one of the most important
things with losing weight is getting
enough sleep sleep has a direct
reflection on the cardiovascular
function your overall vitality your
energy your health but especially your
weight loss so if you're in a situation
where you're working third shift and
they're rotating your schedule okay
that's really bad you don't want to do
that if you're gonna do that you're
gonna maybe work out some situation
where you can be consistent so you're
not one day working third shift and the
second shift and the first shift you
want to be a you want to do a consistent
and then when you have the days off
you're gonna have to keep it somewhat
consistent to your night shift because
it's a major confusion to your hormones
in your brain your body just doesn't
like that so if your adrenals are strong
and your body's fairly healthy it might
not be a situation if you're working
let's say Monday through Friday and the
night shift and then on the weekends you
go back to a regular schedule so that
might not be a problem but certain
people that have weak adrenals and
they're unhealthy it could be a big
strain on them especially if they're
trying to lose weight a couple tips so
in your environment if you're an office
setting you want to make sure that the
lighting is full spectrum lighting so if
you have the option of changing the
light bulb get a full spectrum light
because their circadian rhythms that
control sleep in the hormones are
controlled by light and darkness so we
want that full spectrum kind of like
simulating sunlight and then at night we
want it to be really really dark if
you're in the computer at night that
screen gives an LED blue light which is
very harmful to the sleep cycles so
you'd want to either get an app that
filters it off or an actual screen that
filters that off and that will help you
it basically filters off the blue
spectrum and gives you more yellow which
is easier on the eyes and it will help
you sleep okay so go ahead and apply
this and thanks for watching
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below
I'd really appreciate it and thank you
in advance
