yeah I'm back and we're gonna talk about
sleeping pills and insomnia sleeping
pills are almost at the top of the list
so many people have a sleeping problem
but I'm going to give you some really
important tips that I think can really
improve the quality of your sleep now I
personally had a problem with sleeping
in my 20s it was so bad sometimes there
are nights I don't even sleep one minute
so I do understand the feeling of not
being able to sleep it's literally
torture because you're laying there just
trying all these techniques and you're
getting all worked up and it's just
really frustrating
now there's two big problems with
sleeping pills and I'm gonna put some
links down below just to validate what
I'm talking about but number one your
side effects okay six out of ten people
have side effects from sleeping pills so
the next day you feel drowsy or you have
confusion or forgetfulness or you're
tired I mean the goal of sleeping is to
recharge your body so you can have
energy through the day not feel this way
and based on several studies the
benefits from sleeping pills are not as
great as you might think because some of
them only give you a small amount of
extra sleep it's less than thirty
minutes and only help you go to sleep
between eight and twenty minutes faster
and even doctors don't recommend taking
this on a consistent basis because when
you stop taking it now you really can't
sleep so it comes with a package so here
are some things that I would recommend
number one read a book instead of
watching TV before you go to bed sounds
very simple but it really does work you
should try it going for a long walk
between 45 and 60 minutes so I always
sleep better on the days that I go for
these long walks it's low stress lots of
oxygen also stretching before bed
essential especially if you're on the
computer all day some of you may have
seen this in other videos but it's an
acupressure technique you can use a
device like this or have someone do it
on you okay you're going to be putting
pressure and the upper part of your neck
while you lay down on the couch
or I'm gonna show you another way to do
it so you can apply this in someone else
or they can do it to you but this
technique will completely relax all the
muscles in your back to the point where
you can drift off into a wonderful sleep
next thing is to be careful of the
amount of caffeine that gets built up in
your liver and your liver sometimes
can't detoxify it so that extra caffeine
will keep you up
coffee tea chocolate course sodas but if
you've been watching my channel you're
not consuming sodas but caffeine isn't a
lot of things it's even in certain
medications and it's an energy drink so
we want to avoid those now another good
remedy is l-tryptophan l-tryptophan
turns into serotonin and melatonin which
is the sleep hormone so this is a really
good amino acid but it needs to be taken
on an empty stomach because it's a
building block of protein if you consume
protein at the same time they'll both
compete and you won't get the effect of
l-tryptophan at all in fact if you eat
protein with this you will feel
absolutely no change I never recommend
taking melatonin now because this is a
hormone and over time you need more and
more and more now this sleep aid that I
recommend not only has up tryptophan but
it has all sorts of other ingredients to
extract stress and allow you to drift
off into a wonderful sleep so you can
wake up and not feel Josie I put a link
down below for more information on that
alright so now I'm going to show you the
technique go ahead and practice it do it
and put your comments below a technique
that I'm going to teach you right now of
how to extract stress from the body and
I would use this as a before and after
to see the change one of the biggest
things that this technique is going to
help you with is to improve your quality
of sleep sleep is everything it's going
to help you cope with stress it's going
to help you rejuvenate it's going to
increase your tolerance for stress in
fact you cannot heal the adrenals
without sleep it's impossible how are
you gonna get rid of sleep problems if
you have stress and I'm talking about
accumulative stress in your body so so
yes we need to go for long walks when
you get spaced we need to eat better
the first technique we're going to show
you is how to get rid of stress in your
neck
okay so that's going to be a very cool
technique and there's different points
in the neck that we're going to work on
and then we're gonna work on the points
in the mid-back and then the abdomen
area then in the upper part of the
ribcage where a lot of people hold a lot
of stress so with that let's get right
to it and show you how to do this
technique okay so we're going to show
you how to pull stress out of the body
the first technique is the called the
upper cervical now what we gonna do is
you're gonna take this is meant to be
done on someone else so hopefully you
have a twin or a partner you can do this
I'm going to show you how to do it to
yourself but this is great to do it on
someone else okay so you want to use
this finger here this one I'm not
flipping you off this is this is just a
middle finger right here and then your
thumb okay and then we're gonna press
this way right underneath her skull and
the most important thing is not to mess
up your hair okay so we're going to
there's this little Ridge right
underneath the skull you're going to
slip right underneath it and you're
going to press in equally okay and
you're going to take your hand and press
in the forehead so you're going to press
in right like this you feel that and the
key is to make sure that your equal like
the thumb and the middle finger are the
pressure so you not too much on one side
now what I'm doing now is I'm
stimulating something in your neck that
is triggering the kind of the the brake
pads or the it's called the
parasympathetic nervous system which is
the relaxation points in the body and
the parasympathetic nervous system that
comes out at this level of your spine
kind of helps you sleep it helps you
relax and so that's why the more that I
do this the more that you're going to
feel like you want to take a nap
how does it feel so far you're gonna go
to sleep I thought so so I'm just
pressing in right underneath that and
I'm just gonna hold that for about an
hour
yeah I'm just kidding but if I keep
doing this she's gonna feel very relaxed
so this is like the real key de-stresser
point it's gonna pull the stress right
out of your body now I'll do this for a
little bit maybe for like a minute and
then I'll slip down to the second
vertebra right here this one is really
good for sinus issues so do you have any
sinus issues did you want any okay so
the sinus points it just helps you
breathe and it's good for people that
have sleep apnea so again I'm just
pressing my fingers in this way in the
head that way okay so we're gonna come
right in there
alright and then I'll slowly kind of
come down and I'm looking for tightness
if there's no tightness I'm not going to
press on it now when I come down to the
third vertebra on her left side there's
a big knot it's tight so what I'll do is
I'll just press a little more towards
the left side and it's gonna make her
neck feel really good it's gonna put the
curve back in the neck so I'm just kind
of creep down lower lower till they get
right here this is not c5 this one is
really good if you have a sore throat or
a rasp enos like you're your voice is
hoarse let's say you're a musician you
like you sing or you speak for a living
and your voice is kind of raspy you do
this and it kind of opens up the voice
now do you feel this point how tight
this is right here yeah so I'm just
holding this pressure until it melts
okay
I'm not pressing that hard and then now
I'm going to go all the way down very
lower like to the lower points that's
this is c6 this is really good for the
thyroid thyroid points but what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna hold this until
the entire neck is nice and loose and
she's gonna feel very relaxed in the
neck so many people hold stress in the
neck okay look at it right through in
there you feel this point right here so
I'm emphasizing the left side because
it's it's kind of really tight on the
left okay so how does that feel you like
that yeah okay good so you can let's
let's get the next victim I mean the
next patient all right so we're gonna
show you how to do this on yourself you
need a device like this this is built
after my own hand
okay and this is great for different
sizes of people look at the real wide
one here this is for the top part of the
neck this is for different parts of the
neck this is for different size people
we're going to take the widest one on
myself hook it on the back of my neck
scoot this down on a tall back chair or
the couch I think this works better then
using it on your pillow and when you're
going to sleep at night because you're
at a certain angle and you can apply it
you can sit back and just let these
points press right into your neck and
there's a sweet spot that you want to
hit that you'll just feel like the
maximum release of stress and you'll
just want to take a nap I fell asleep
sometimes I'll do this on my desk up
with my feet up and I'll sit back and I
will just like go right out this is like
the most important acupressure point for
your entire spine to feel relaxed and to
melt because you're hitting a point
called the parasympathetic the origin of
the person to the nervous system which
is right there and that's the turn off
switch that's like the rest and digest
that's your relaxation points and then
you do that for a little while and then
you come down to the next point through
here second one and I had a history of a
lot of neck problems so I do this a lot
to keep my neck nice and relaxed okay
then I'll inch down to the middle part
like c5 and this is again really good
for tension in your upper your upper
shoulders and also good for your believe
it or not it's going to help your voice
yeah hoarseness because what you're
doing is you're putting stimulating
these points that bring circulation to
the entire front part of your neck and I
always tell people don't believe me just
do it and just tell me what you feel be
skeptical and see if it prove it to
yourself and 9 out of 10
it seems to work so you should try it
okay so that's so you want to start out
with this first one the second third
fourth and just kind of like ease down
to the lower part of your neck okay so
that's how you do the neck point now
this one here you want to go right up
underneath the clavicle collarbone and
you're gonna stretch back like this
and if you haven't already subscribed
click the red button below and that
little bell icon so you can be notified
of all the new videos that I'm gonna be
releasing and I have some very cool and
interesting videos coming up in the next
coming weeks plus in addition to that
you'll be notified of the live Q&A
sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well so stay tuned for
more great content
