hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about fiber okay cuz a lot of people
think that they need a lot of fiber and
they do but you should not be getting
your fiber from the grains okay you
should get it from the vegetable family
and I'm going to talk about why that is
but you need to know what the purpose of
fiber is for your body basically is the
food for your micro bacteria in your gut
okay so that's what your gut lives off
of this fiber but the problem with
grains is it has gluten and gluten is
very hard on the digestive system it's
it can create all sorts of inflammatory
conditions and also grains are a problem
with the glycemic index because it
spikes blood sugar and it has phytic
acid which prevents the absorption of
vitamins and minerals
okay another big problem vegetables are
low on the glycemic index and they're
high in nutrients so of course the
American Heart Association is
recommending you get one serving of
grain for each meal of course they have
to say that because they're sponsored
and they get money from frito-lay
Kellogg's and Quaker Oats all right so
get your fiber from vegetables not from
grains hey tell me what you think about
this video go ahead and comment below
and give me your feedback
