let's talk about the liver and some
really important things you can do to
help improve your ability to detoxify
and reverse damage to the liver now I
have personal experience uh with having
a very damaged liver and um some people
will ask me um well did you cure your
liver right well I have no residual
symptoms from it and I seem to have
resolved my liver problems but if I go
off my plan okay just a little bit I
will start to experience symptoms of a
liver problem and the reason I'm
bringing that up is because sometimes
people will have this idea that if you
cure something you can then go back to
your normal diet or your regular diet
and be able to tolerate uh some of those
foods for example let's take diabetes I
had someone actually ask me this well um
will your diet uh fix my
diabetes so so I can then go back to my
regular plan I'm like no you can't do
that because that would be equivalent to
having a car that runs on unlet it now
you're going to switch to Diesel and
think that your car is going to run
normal if you put diesel in an engine
that's not designed for diesel okay and
you ruin it you can't go back to diesel
okay you have to use the fuel that that
car is designed to run on same thing
with the body our bodies Were Meant to
run on Ketone fuel any glucose that it
needs it can make very very easily and
this especially applies to the liver if
you overload the liver with too much
glucose or carbs um it's not going to
work right so the liver needs certain
things to function okay but what I want
to talk about is something a little bit
different and that is glutathione
glutathione is one of the most important
antioxidants for your liver and pretty
much for all your cells all your cells
have glutathione in it in very very
large quantities ities it's very
important I like to call it a superhero
because it's there to um protect the
liver it's there to help repair the
liver from damage and there's a lot of
research on glutathione there's actually
over a
100,000 uh pure review papers in
scientific journals just on glutathione
so it's well researched and so it's
heavily involved with the repair actions
of the liver as well as the
detoxification function of your liver
and so whether you have a fatty liver or
an inflamed liver or scar tissue or
therosis of the liver maintaining your
glutathione levels is going to be a very
very important thing to do now as far as
detoxification glutathione has special
affinity for heavy metals okay
especially Mercury it pulls it out of
the brain and brings it to the liver and
out through the bile and it gets it out
of the body I mean that's like
miraculous
it helps to change poisons that are fat
cable that are stuck in the body to
water soluble harmless particles that's
that's pretty cool it helps to break
down things like hydrogen peroxide that
your cells make as one of the defense
mechanisms in the immune system your
body makes a lot of hydrogen peroxide so
glutathione comes in there and helps to
neutralize that if you have overdosed on
something called acetamin
then glutathione can come in there and
neutralize that effect if you drank a
lot of alcohol glutathione can help um
minimize the damage to your liver if you
are taking medications on a regular
basis you should be making sure your
glutathione is at a higher level I mean
there are so many health conditions that
are connected to low levels of
glutathione there's over 75 major
diseases that are associated with low
glutathione levels and the problem is as
we age we make less and less of it so
I'm going to talk about how to keep it
at a higher level in your body it can
also improve insulin resistance it can
help counter exercise fatigue and it can
protect the mitochondria that's one of
its main functions the mitochondria is
all about producing energy and when you
get damage in the mitochondria you're
more susceptible to getting cancer and
so glutathione is directly involved in
keeping the mitochondria from becoming
too damaged so you can prevent cancer so
it's a really important molecule all
right so how do we become depleted with
glutathion well number one we get older
okay number two trauma the more trauma
you have the less glutathione you're
going to have and so the need for
glutathione goes up the problem is when
you get traumatized you end up in the
hospital right and then what do they
feed you all the things that deplete
glutathion so that's not good so junk
food conventional Foods deplete
glutathion alcohol depletes
glutathione stress depletes glutathione
toxins exposure to heavy metals Plastics
chemicals medications drugs all deplete
glutathione and increase the need for
glutathione overtraining let's say you
go to the gym and you exercise too much
now you end up with low amounts of
glutathione and of course being a
pre-diabetic a diabetic or eating a lot
of carbohydrates especially refined
carbohydrates sugars can deplete your
glutathione levels so the question is
how do we beef up this number no pun
intended well just what happens that
beef is loaded with glutathione so
eating beef is a good thing and eating
animal products will give you more
glutathione than um plant sources
however plant sources will also give you
glutathione especially the ones that are
high in Sulfur okay that would be like
the cruciferous family of vegetables um
kale broccoli brussels sprouts radishes
especially now other sulfur vegetables
like garlic and onion very very good to
increase your glutathione and so when
you have your animal Meats like whether
you have your beef or your fish or
whatever add the garlic and onion to it
to really optimize that glutathione now
there's other supplements you can take
to increase your glutathione as well NAC
is one alphalipoic acid is another
curcumin which is from turmeric is
another vitamin D will help you Sammy is
another and melatonin and I'm not
talking about the supplement melatonin
I'm just talking about the Melatonin
that you can get from being exposed to
infrared light so being out in the sun
will increase melatonin which will then
increase glutathione and melatonin is a
very powerful antioxidant as well so the
combination is really good and also what
the sun will do for your stress it
lowers your stress levels and so all
these things together can compound this
amazing effect to increase glutathion
but I think it's important to understand
the mechanics of glutathione so you can
understand that if you were traumatized
for example you had an injury well well
definitely start getting more
glutathione to counter that effect or
let's say you slipped off your program
and drank some alcohol well now beef up
your glutathion levels or you know
you're you're aging the older you get
the more stressed you are the more that
you have to take medications the more
important it is to keep your diet really
really clean to increase your
glutathione to counter and neutralize
the effect that these things can have on
your body now there's a lot more to know
about the liver and so I want you to
watch this video next I put it up here
check it out
