we're gonna talk about restless leg
syndrome someone had a question and want
to know more about it so we're gonna
talk about it so restless leg syndrome
is a condition that I even had in my 20s
and I'm telling you it really keeps you
from sleeping it's very uncomfortable
because the lower part of your body is
just it just has to move it's just so
much energy in it so you have this
impulse to fidget you can't relax
you can't just be still so what causes
that is a deficiency of b1 thiamine
okay now thymine has many different
functions creates a lot of different
symptoms there are several possible
things that can influence this condition
one because b1 is involved in the krebs
cycle which is the energy production in
the mitochondria if you're low and b1
you're not going to make enough ATP
which is the energy currency that feeds
the nervous system okay number two
there's a pathway that's involved with
thiamine in the cell in the mitochondria
and if you don't have enough b1 the
nerves start developing atrophy so they
start dying off you're initially going
to have irritation in there before it
becomes damaged and the irritation would
be near itis or nerve pain which is
peripheral neuropathy which you see in
diabetics where the bottom of the feet
are tingling burning painful and then
numbness or you might feel it in your
fingertips so when you think neuritis
always think deficiency of b1 but over
time when it becomes chronic you lose
the function of those nerves like in
peripheral neuropathy where becomes numb
and basically dead but if this is
happening in the brain you're gonna
first have excessive thinking and
analyzing everything to death and then
it starts going down where basically
you're like okay where am I going today
you start losing your your ability to
think salt problems and also have a good
memory the next function a b1 has to do
with making this chemical called
acetylcholine acetylcholine is involved
in motor control this is like the
certain nerves that control the muscles
which are called a motor nerves and in
which case that you cannot see
still your body has to move so with this
condition it's not just affecting
restless leg syndrome it's affecting the
whole body where your body just cannot
be still and there's various other
conditions that are very similar but
they're labeled differently like
akathisia which is an irresistible urge
to move or another condition which is
tardive dyskinesia which stems from the
chronic use of certain psych drugs which
deplete vitamin b1 and so now you have
all these tics and weird motions in your
body that you can't control this usually
is a b1 deficiency
why because psych drugs deplete b1 as
one of the things that it does and this
condition also relates to low amounts of
dopamine and guess what
in order to make dopamine you need b1
okay so if you don't have enough b1
you're not going to make enough dopamine
and then you have attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder where you see
this in kids they cannot sit still right
well guess what
they're deficient in be 100 parents ever
told you to sit still and stop moving
but guess what it wasn't your fault
it was just low b1 probably because
you've been consuming a lot of sugar as
a child because the refined
carbohydrates and high levels of sugar
like I consumed a tremendous amount of
my 20s created 2 b1 deficiency and then
gave me this symptom right here if you
know someone who has ADHD you want to
give them b1 zinc for sure folate and
EPA which is you can get this from fish
oil which is an omega-3 fatty acid in
fact the derivation of this word right
here comes from the Greek knot and then
to sit an inability to sit so in summary
without enough b1 you're gonna have a
hard time just being there comfortably
sitting without the urge of having to
move the best source of natural vitamin
b1 would be nutritional yeast thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
