hi guys it's me again in this video
we're gonna talk about something called
dim okay di M dim is a super
concentrated like 25 X phytonutrient
it's a blend of phytonutrients which is
basically the Chris comes from
cruciferous vegetables and this compound
is a real potent estrogen balancer and a
potent androgen antagonist which
basically a blocks excessive amounts of
androgen so those are male hormones so
this is how it works you could have
excessive antigens which then convert to
estrogen giving you a situation where
your estrogen dominant and there's a
whole bunch of symptoms for that and
normally there's an enzyme called
aromatase that makes this conversion but
dim is an aromatase inhibitor so it
blocks this reaction from occurring and
it helps balance the estrogen dominance
and excessive amounts of antigen so it's
a great hormonal balancer so there's
several things that dim is good for
number one estrogen dominance and if you
have too much androgens so dim is really
good in certain situations if you're a
female and have facial hair or
polycystic ovarian syndrome or hair loss
or oily skin cystic acne that relates to
hormones and lastly dim could support a
healthy prostate in men if there's an
estrogen dominant situation thanks so
much for watching hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
