hey dr. Burke here in this video we're
going to talk about will power now what
is will power will power is your
determination your ability to control
yourself and in this context we're
talking about control yourself
with your eating I think one of the
biggest things that is controlling
people it's this darn bread I mean can
you imagine like going through a bakery
and just the smell of that bread coming
out the oven the warm gooey bread with
and you put butter on it the sourdough
bread the French bread people love that
and they have a difficult time
controlling the temptation of giving
into the bread and not only does the
bread have the gluten which actually
messes up your digestive system and
causes a lot of other inflammation but
it also will keep you from losing weight
so I'm going to give you some techniques
we have two techniques number one it's a
technique that I developed I'm going to
get a patent on it and it's called
bubble therapy where we literally put
you in a bubble and that way when you're
eating around the table of your family
you won't be able to get to the bread
it's very very effective let me show you
I want that breath
okay I'm back alright now the next
technique that you're going to use is
actually a nutritional technique what is
causing you to crave the bread it's
really a low serotonin thing serotonin
serotonin is a pleasure hormone when
you're deficient in serotonin you're
going to be seeking pleasure from bread
and and other starches so there is a
natural remedy called l-tryptophan that
you can get at the health food store
there's you have other precursors true
like 5htp and all that but l-tryptophan
seems to work the best l-tryptophan
turns into serotonin and you would want
to take it before you go to bed because
it also helps you sleep serotonin is a
sleeping hormone so it really is good
for also chocolate cravings sleep and
anxiety and depression so l-tryptophan
turns into serotonin take it before you
go to bed and you want to take this on
an empty stomach because it's a protein
it's an amino acid and if you eat
protein with it it the other protein
will block the absorption so about an
hour before you go to bed don't eat take
one of these l-tryptophan and you'll
find if you do it consistently your
bread cravings are going to go down so
until you get the bubble at least get
the l-tryptophan to start using that and
that way you reduce the cravings so we
got avoidance of the bread which we have
to clean up all the bread in your house
and then number two we have to get rid
of the cravings because it's almost
impossible to avoid and live in a bubble
and avoid all the bread that is out
there families and social events and
holidays and birthday parties and all
these things so you're really going to
have to focus on getting rid of your
cravings and not letting yourself get
too stressed out and depleting with
Sarah tone because serotonin is made by
the adrenal gland so this related to
stress again it all comes back to stress
and that's why people are stressed
okay so try some milk tryptophan and try
the bubble therapy and I will see you in
the next video
you
