10,000 international units of vitamin D3
is this a huge mistake or a miracle cure
he talked to an average person about
vitamin D they're probably used to
taking 600 IUS of vitamin D3 sometimes
up to a th000 maybe 2,000 but when you
talk about 10,000 I use some people
actually freak out because 10,000 sounds
like a very very large number especially
compared to something like vitamin B1
which the recommendations for that is
like 1.2 mg if you were to convert
10,000 international units of vitamin D3
into milligrams the number would only be
.25 milligrams that's only 1/4 of 1
milligram today we're going to talk
about why an average person should be
taking 10,000 IUS of vitamin D3 as a
maintenance dosage every single day
vitamin D is the most important vitamin
why because it controls 10% of all your
genetics over 90% of population has less
than 40 nog per milliliter of vitamin D3
which actually is on the low side the
guidelines for 600 international units
of vitamin D3 were based on preventing
rickets they're based on supporting bone
health and calcium in the blood they're
not based on supporting everything else
that vitamin D does think about how many
people are inside people don't go
outside anymore and then you also have
where you live if you're living in a
northern part of the world it's very
difficult to get vitamin D3 I want to
explain something called The Shadow rule
if you're outside and your Shadow is
longer than you are tall you are not
getting any vitamin D just because of
the angle where the sun is to the Earth
you also can't get vitamin D through
glass so when you're driving your car
and you're getting the sun through the
glass you're not getting any UV that's
creating uh vitamin D the darker your
skin the less vitamin D you're going to
absorb dark skin individuals need 10
times more exposure to the Sun to get
the same amount of vitamin D3 and if
they don't get enough vitamin D3 some of
the common symptoms are going to get
lower back pain or achiness especially
that radiates into the hip or the thighs
very tight muscles in the lower back
blood pressure will start to go up
because something called nitric oxide
the thing that really controls blood
pressure is stimulated by vitamin D3
another common symptom of vitamin D
deficiency is depression or even anxiety
if you're low in vitamin D your immune
system cannot work you're more
susceptible to having just inflammation
anywhere in the body what about all
these facial creams that women use
putting sunblocker in so many facial
creams and makeups now it's just going
to block your vitamin D3 in 1980 our
whole society became Sun phobic we want
to prevent skin cancer here's the
problem since 1980 melanoma has continue
to go up obviously the sun wasn't the
cause of it because most melanoma skin
cancer occurs in areas of your body
where you're not exposed to the sun my
viewpoint is that melanoma really comes
from low vitamin D but that's a
different video for all these functions
in the body especially the immune system
you need at least 10,000 IUS every
single day which is the same thing of
being out in the sun for 20 minutes in
the summertime I mean that's not toxic
there's a thing called vitamin D
resistance when they test your vitamin D
in your blood they're not checking the
active form of vitamin D they're
checking this inactive form vitamin D
has to go from the inactive to the
active through various steps and then it
has to be accepted into the vitamin D
receptor there's a lot of things that
block the vitamin D receptor genetics a
lot of people have genetic issues with
the vitamin D receptor and you can get
your DNA test to figure that out another
really big thing that will block your
vitamin D absorption is Plastics this is
a huge problem in our society right now
we are just being filled with plastics
and other chemicals they called Forever
chemicals which are interfering with our
biological chemistry especially the
absorption of vitamin D3 as well as the
production of testosterone as you age
it's more difficult to absorb vitamin D
because your skin is thicker if you are
overweight have irritable bowel syndrome
or any inflammation your gut you're
going to have a hard time absorbing
being vitamin D3 being pregnant
breastfeeding very very important to
take more vitamin D3 I would recommend
10,000 I use every single day and that's
a very conservative number on top of all
of that magnesium is the most important
other nutrient to factor in when you're
taking vitamin D3 because vitamin D3
won't work without magnesium because as
you increase your vitamin D3 the demand
for magnesium goes up too vitamin D
gives a broad spectrum of positive
effects helping prevent cancer to
shrinking tumors but you need
therapeutic dosage to do that any
inflammation in the body and especially
autoimmune diseases if someone has an
autoimmune disease which a lot of people
do nowadays they need much higher
amounts of vitamin D3 there's a doctor
in Brazil that specializes in autoimmune
diseases he has over a thousand videos
of before and afters using high doses of
vitamin D3 for just about every single
autoimmune disease that you can imagine
his wife had Ms guess how much vitamin D
she's taking on a daily basis a 100,000
iuse of vitamin D3 every single day if
you're using vitamin D as a therapeutic
effect for certain diseases I think it's
important to work with a doctor that
specializes in that that knows about it
that can check various things in your
blood to make sure that you don't
develop too much calcium in the blood
but if you look at the data you'd have
to take hundreds of thousands of vitamin
D3 for months to create this hyper
calmic effect and I will put a link down
below of a group of doctors that you can
contact to see if you can work with one
of them if you're trying to use
therapeutic dosages to correct a disease
if you wanted a really good home test to
be able to test yourself with vitamin D
and you don't need a prescription for
this I put a link down below of a great
company that can do that through an
organization that supports the science
of vitamin D3 so there's a lot of great
information and I'll put their website
down below and then if it's too low to
find out what you can do to raise it and
then maintain it at a certain level
because addressing this vitamin D
deficiency is the lowest hanging fruit
of creating the most health with the
least amount of effort money
complications without risking any type
of safety issues it's completely safe
our bodies were designed to get a lot of
sun but unfortunately nowadays we don't
get enough Sun we're going to have to
change our lifestyle and get more sun or
at least take more vitamin D3
and I would recommend as a minimum
dosage just as a maintenance dosage
10,000 I use of vitamin D3 I would make
sure it also has K2 magnesium and zinc
with that vitamin D3
