hi guys in this video I want to talk
about why diabetics tend to get high
blood pressure okay well first of all if
you're a type 2 diabetic you have
insulin resistance which means you have
higher levels of insulin okay so what
happens the insulin is not working so
you have to take metformin or glucophage
to be able to get the receptor to obsess
accept insulin but then on the other
hand because there's no return
communication to the pancreas the
feedback loops you get increased insulin
by five to seven times a normal person
if you want others to understand more of
that I put a link down below but the
point is that diabetics type to have
higher levels of insulin which then
cause the retention of sodium okay which
then caused the retention of water so
they have edema swelling and yes also
increase insulin increases inflammation
in the arteries as well as certain
constriction in the tone of the vessels
but the point is that the main thing
will do is a cause retention of sodium
retention of fluid increased blood
pressure that's that's the mechanism now
the treatment of course is to go on a
low salt diet right well what's gonna
happen if you lower salt you still
haven't fixed the high insulin so now
you create a sodium deficiency so you're
going to get weakness fatigue constant
constipation things like that because
you need a certain amount of sodium for
a nerve and muscle function and then
there's you put on medication usually a
diuretic which then has a side effect of
lowering potassium well guess what
if you lower potassium which normally
lowers blood pressure you're going to
increase the relative ratio of higher
sodium when you because potassium and
sodium work together so you don't want
to lose any more potassium from your
body in fact one of the best things you
could do if you're diabetic has
increased more potassium from the diet a
lot of vegetables and even even as a
supplement as well when you can improve
the situation so you don't want to
necessarily restrict sodium too much and
then also another side effect from the
diuretic is insulin resistance which
will increase more insulin
so the medication in dips ends up
aggravating the condition in making it
worse okay why because it's not treating
the underlying cause in sort of
resistance so here's what do you do what
you want to do is get on a keto program
I put a link down below which is
basically going to reduce your
carbohydrates which will then reduce
your need for insulin which will then
reduce the need for retention of sodium
and you'll find that you'll lose your
fluid you'll actually have normal
balance of sodium and you probably have
to consume more sodium because you'll
you won't retain it anymore okay
so I watched those links down below and
let me know what you think hey you
probably already subscribed but if you
haven't press this little button down
below and I will keep you updated
