today I want to talk about some really
interesting points about selenium that
you've never heard before so when I talk
about selenium which is the trace
mineral Brazil nuts are really high in
selenium they might know that it's
involved in thyroid function it helps
convert T4 the inactive version of the
thyroid hormone to the active form of
the thyroid hormone T3 they may also
know that it helps to detoxify Mercury
and it can help fight and prevent cancer
especially the prostate and the lung
selenium is also really important in
cardiovascular health and preventing
strokes and also in preventing dementia
simply because it tends to fight free
radicals and inflammation that can occur
in the brain and so it's really good in
the prevention of Alzheimer's
Parkinson's and other types of
degeneration that occur in our nervous
system and so here are some things that
you probably don't know about selenium
the real reason why it's high in Brazil
nuts now the Brazil nuts come from the
Brazil resilient tree which is in South
America and what's unique about the soil
that this tree has grown on is that it's
nearly absent of sulfur and the
chemistry of sulfur is very similar to
selenium
and this means that selenium can bind
with certain amino acids just like
sulfur can and be a functional
substitute for sulfur and so when you
just consume one Brazil nut you're
getting like I think 96 micrograms of
selenium which is more than enough you
don't need a lot of selenium you just
need tiny amounts because they're also
on the flip side is some problems with
taking too much selenium and becoming
selenium toxic and from that you can get
hair loss neuropathies Tremors other
neurological problems issues with the
heart there's a lot of issues that you
can get if you take too much so just
because a lot of people are deficient in
selenium like over a billion doesn't
mean they should start overloading their
bodies with selenium especially out of
the balance of all the trace minerals I
mean the requirements for selenium are
roughly between 50 and 70 micrograms
okay but here's the big question and
something that rarely do people know
about
why are so many people deficient in
selenium is it because they don't
consume enough Brazil nuts well selenium
is in a lot of other Foods it's in your
Meats it's in red meats it's in organ
Meats it's in shellfish like I said it's
even in chicken and turkey and pork and
lamb it's in egg yolks okay it's a
nutritional yeast now it's also on
certain plants but not in very high
amounts where do animals get their
selenium well from the plants that grow
on the land where does the plants get it
from the soil now here's the thing that
is new information for most people
selenium is not just sitting there
passively in the soil waiting to be
absorbed it's usually in a form that the
plant roots have a difficult time
extracting they need help and they get
help from the microbes and this is
actually very new information and I'm
going to show you a video right now of a
close-up of really what happens and how
plants get the majority of new nutrition
so if you see these little things by the
root you're getting this Exchange
from the bacteria okay being absorbed
into the root but really the plant root
is eating the bacteria and it's
extracting the minerals and then the
bacteria in the process loses its cell
wall it's still alive it actually gets
food from the root it's fed
carbohydrates of course they're not on
keto and then the root spits out this
bacteria
start this cycle again and again this
whole cycle is called rhizophagy which
basically comes from two words rhiza
meaning root and feiji meaning eat okay
so the roots that eat bacteria that then
get a lot of their nutrition and then
they spit it out and they actually start
to cycle over and over and over again
and so it's really missing in this chain
of events is
microbe diversity and the amount of
microbes in the soil so we just don't
pay attention or consider importance
this biology in the soil
in the amount of bacteria and fungus as
well as in the diversification of these
microbes and this has been really a huge
omitted factor in the health of the soil
and the health of the plant and the
health of the animal and in our health
the microbes are the Workhorse that have
certain acids that mobilize these
minerals from rocks and unless someone
understands that especially Farmers okay
unfortunately a lot of the conventional
farmers
don't understand that and so they don't
have this biology in the soil and now
what happens is that they're forced to
put various things in the soil usually
NPK which is nitrogen phosphorus and
potassium to kind of boost the growth of
the plant and so the health of the
plant's not there and so insects and
pests accumulate and so they have to use
pesticides and then the weeds come they
have to use herbicides and what's even
more wild is that all the way up to
chain you know we suffer we don't have
necessarily the the strength that we
should have with our immune system so
we're forced to take antibiotics now you
might want to say what about the
microbes in the soil do they get
antibiotics well that just so happens
that one of the most common herbicides
out there is classified as an antibiotic
even when you buy soil at the store okay
to grow certain things if you're buying
the soil
it comes sterilized okay they sterilize
it sterilization means you kill the
microbes you heat it up so the more that
we omit this very important factor this
biology in the soil and the more that we
eat you know pasteurized Foods sterilize
Foods cooked Foods canned foods the more
our health suffers and this is why in a
lot of my videos I talk about at the
very least start consuming fermented
foods start buying foods from Farmers
that really care about their soil that
grow things with microbial diversity so
I just spent a little more time on that
one topic because it's so important
here are a couple other points too
it could be that you have a genetic
mutation related to the proteins or
enzymes with selenium in which case it
makes it even more important to get
enough selenium to build up certain
enzymes like glutathione which is
greatly needed in the liver to help you
detoxify poisons and even mercury in the
liver when people take statins
sentence are drugs that block
cholesterol many times they have muscle
symptoms and neurological symptoms well
it just so happens that those symptoms
mimic a selenium deficiency because
statins actually interfere with the
enzymes that involve selenium when you
get enough selenium your muscles are
protected and this is probably why
animal proteins like red meat and other
types of muscle protein are loaded with
selenium and there's also some great
data on how selenium can directly
increase the diversification of your own
microbiome and increase the abundance of
your microbes so apparently microbes
really like selenium especially if you
have dysbiosis or some type of imbalance
with your microbes however another
really important topic related to
selenium has to do with this mercury in
fish okay for that information I highly
recommend you watch this video right
here
