today we're going to talk about the
relationship between coronavirus and
your lungs so the word Corona comes from
a crown because the coronavirus has
these little projections that look like
a little crown and these little
projections have affinity for lung
tissue so in certain cases especially if
you're critical or it's very very severe
there's a high rate of the person
getting a condition called ARDS acute
respiratory distress syndrome in this
situation you have severe hypoxia that
means you have a lack of oxygen
other symptoms rapid breathing dizziness
breathlessness sweating and here's
what's happening at the very end of your
bronchial tree you have these little air
sacs called alveoli and they're just
these little empty sacks okay that have
a very thin wall and they butt up
against these tiny capillaries so what's
happening is we have the oxygen coming
in and it can very easily diffuse
through this one cell layer wall on both
sides goes into the red blood cells so
now the red blood cells can be
oxygenated and you can make hemoglobin
and that's carried through the entire
body you also have the exchange of co2
that comes the other way so you can
exhale the co2 out and breathe in the o2
so you have this exchange of oxygen but
this virus having affinity for the lung
tissue starts to create damage around
the lining through here and on the
capillaries on the other side there's
inflammation that develops there's a
leak of plasma that starts coming into
the lung through here so it starts to
fill up with fluid try to breathe when
you have fluid in your lungs it's almost
impossible what happens then is this
wall starts to thicken and now we get
less and less exchange of oxygen and co2
going back and forth and this is why
supportive care is so critical these
patients they have to give them oxygen
and they have to try to minimize the
inflammation that's
going on what's really missing or
omitted in this condition is two
nutrients one vitamin D and one zinc
this is a pretty well-known fact that
ninety percent of patients with arts has
a very low vitamin D level okay so what
is vitamin D vitamin D is a an immune
modulator it's not really even up
vitamin it's a hormone that can greatly
improve your immune system it's a really
powerful anti-inflammatory so that would
be a no-brainer if I had arts I would be
downing the vitamin D immediately and
then you have zinc zinc is probably one
of the most important nutrients for your
lungs
especially to reduce inflammation if
you're deficient in zinc infection lasts
longer you're more susceptible to
infections virus and bacteria you don't
have the full capacity of your army your
white blood cells put a couple links
down below to show you some very
interesting research on two very
inexpensive nutrients that honestly
should be taken if someone has this
condition if you have not seen my video
on boosting your immune system I put it
right here
