I want to show you how to stretch the
lower part of the body the hips and the
lower back because the the typical way
that they teach us in school is the
exact opposite and I'm going to prove it
and you can test this on yourself and
other people that this actually is true
so the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to check the range of motion
in her lower back in her hips so let's
have you lay in your back
and so the first thing we're going to do
and it's helpful to have someone do this
to you you could do it yourself actually
I'll just on this one I'll just I'll
teach you how to do it so you're going
to take your knee actually on let's just
take this side here and bring the knee
up hold with your other hand gra hand
yeah and hold your knee and just raise
it up okay so that we're checking the
range of motion okay now we're actually
checking the muscles of the butt which
is the glutamic muscles and that seems
to be loose right okay so now let's just
check this side do the same thing on
this
side oh look at look at that so this one
does not go up so what means what that
means is that this muscle down here is
restricted and it's tight so she has a
tight glute and Associated muscles on
the right back posterior side okay so
that's one thing now the way we're going
to fix that is we're going to stretch
the opposite muscles okay so if the
muscles in the backside are tight we're
going to stretch the front part right
through here there's two muscles that we
must work on and one is deep inside the
pelvis and that's called the soaz muscle
that's the one you do when you just sit
ups and it just lifts up your it
connects the upper with the lower and
the soas muscle you know that can come
from sitting um and crossing your leg or
sitting incorrectly or driving um in the
in the seat all the time but um so this
sides we're going to work on this side
and then the muscle on the thigh right
here from here so you got this muscle
here and this one we want want to
stretch this now it's really good if you
can have someone do this on you um but
I'll show you both ways why don't you
lay in your
stomach what you can do is you're just
going to take this muscle and you're
going to stretch it upward right here
and we're going to relax it we're going
to stretch it and relax it stretch it
and relax it stretch it and relax it now
I'm going to show you
how you can do it if you don't have
someone to stretch you you'll take
that it's the right side we're going to
take the right side right here we're
going to cross our legs and we're just
going to lean backwards this way so we
want to stretch all these muscles right
through in here now there is another way
you can do it lay on your
back face up go a little bit close to
the side here so you do this on the
couch or your bed and you can take this
leg and stretch stretch it down do you
feel any stretch here okay so we can
just stretch this right here relax
stretch relax stretch relax stretch
relax okay now
um so that's how you would stretch a
tight glute on the same side you work on
the opposite side now how do we test
this the the front part of the muscles
these are all the flexors the soas and
then some of the flexors on the hip
because we can do them both at the same
time like the
thighs right here I guess we could it's
the same thing you would lay on your bed
and you bring your leg down here so
let's go ahead and um have you lay on
the other or actually yeah scoot on the
other side yeah and then bring this leg
down I want you to feel that okay now go
to the other
side yeah and compare which side is
restricted that side that side okay so
we have a tight flexor on the uh so of
course we just stretched this one so
okay so now you can sit up for me and
face this way all right so what's
happening is that it's She's Tight on
the right butt and the left flexor right
here so what we're going to do is we're
going to stretch the butt muscle on the
left side so cross your leg over here
and take the knee and raise it up and
lean
forward okay good let's um bring it up
and then lean forward with your butt
yeah do you feel it pull mhm okay so
we're basically just stretching the
opposite muscle on the same side okay so
you can kind of just do this watch
stretch
forward okay stretch
forward stretch forward and you can
bring that in too you could bring up
bring this up and you're going to
stretch this side right here that's
going to take a lot of um asymmetry or
out of balanc muscles and put them back
into balance and your back is going to
feel much much much better this all
these things I'm showing you is good for
back pain now the next thing we want to
do is go ahead and stand up and we want
to stretch the chest the muscles on the
the side right through here and here um
it's called the tensor FASA lat so what
you're going to do is you're going to
take you just take your hips and just
kind of lean your pelvis this way push
your pelvis into this
wall yeah good okay now feel the
tightness now go to the other
side okay which one's
tighter okay so we're going to stretch
into the good way go ahead and stretch
this
one two okay and really push that out
yeah there we go okay do that about four
more
times yeah this is very very important
to get your back uh feeling good okay
now go to the other side now tell me if
it's easier yeah okay good have a SE
that problem comes from a lot of
crossing your legs at at work and you
know at home or uh the way some people
drive like this you know so that just
throws off the back so the last stretch
I'm going to show you is a rotation so
what we're going to do is we're going to
take take your left hand put on your
knee and just keep this straight and
twist and look back yeah we're rotating
her lower back okay now compare that to
the other
side yeah just twist and stretch okay
which one's tighter the right the right
side okay so she can't go to the right
we're going to go to the left so we're
going to just twist her uh just picture
that you have a a rag that we're we're
just kind of ringing out the water and
just twisting her this way for about an
hour
yeah okay good
okay now go to the other
side okay good so every time we do this
we actually create a
turnoff response of the tight muscle so
we're getting symmetry so if you could
if you take the principle and apply it
to the whole body you can really melt
these muscles it's going to help your
sleep as well so go ahead and apply this
and uh comment Down Below on my blog to
see how it works
