all right so you get really full fast
but two hours later you are starving why
is that well you have instant resistance
okay and that's a situation where your
insulin can't connect to the cell
thereby you can't open the cell door to
allow the nutrients and the fuel to go
into the cell so this is a problem it's
resistive because insulin is supposed to
allow nutrition and fuel to go into the
cell so that's blocked because your
system was so dependent on food for its
blood sugars okay and frequent eating
that it's not able to tap into its own
fat reserve yet so your digestive system
is filled with food but it's just a
matter of time before that goes away
where you're going to have to fill it
back in because it's basically a problem
if you're not able to tap into your fat
reserves so what do you do do you keep
eating more fat to make yourself bloated
no you have to make sure that you
consume the nutrients specifically
vegetables in large quantities the leafy
greens are going to be very essential to
starting to fix this problem right here
because you need more potassium you need
more magnesium you also need more
vitamin b1 to help heal this so number
one make sure that you're doing it
correct with the moderate protein large
vegetables apple cider vinegar which is
going to be very very important to speed
things up and just make sure that you're
doing it very gradual so you don't have
to go too long and suffer too long
because you're doing this long fast and
then just give it a little more time and
your body will adapt
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a video click the link down
below and share some ideas I want to
hear
