is burbine a natural version of OIC for
weight loss that's what we're going to
take a deep dive in today because I
wasn't interested in doing a video on
this until I did a little search on
Nature's OIC on Tick Tock and there is
just massive amounts of people doing
this with great results but the thing
that really got me is when I went to
Google and I started searching this and
wow I mean it's almost like this
coordinated commercial for a Zen pick
really smashing and invalidating
berberine you know they're talking about
you know you got to be careful with the
burine because it could give you side
effects like diarrhea constipation gas
stomach ache and if you actually consume
too much it could be fatal I mean I
would really like to know how many
people died of ever taking berberine I
mean it's just really about putting
doubt in your mind about taking
something more natural because you can't
patent it they'll mention that you don't
want to use berberine as a substitute
for OIC there's not enough research on
this topic yet maybe we should wait
until someone decides to spend the money
and do a double blind Placebo control
trial on berberine that's not ever going
to happen so let's talk about berberine
exactly what it is it's not a plant it's
a phyton nutrient or chemical in various
types of plants and it has some very
interesting properties I mean like
massive benefit to to almost every
single condition you can imagine with
emphasis on your blood sugar they've
done comparisons to metformin one of the
Blockbuster uh drugs for type 2 diabetes
uh helping someone with insulin
resistance guess what berberine gets
similar results to metformin with less
side effects there's side effects with
metformin this is why metformin has a
what's called a black box warning
because it has major side effects so as
far as helping you lose weight berberine
doesn't directly melt any fat off your
body what it does is it goes deeper into
the reason why people are overweight in
the first place IT addresses insulin
resistance it can help you lower blood
sugar and insulin resistance and blood
sugar are
behind a slow metabolism it's behind
people gaining weight why would there be
41 patents on berberine because people
are trying to patent it so they can make
money on it because it really works
burine even helps to activate vitamin D
into the active form there's been
longevity studies it has anti- arhythmic
properties helping people with arhythmia
it also helps decrease the risk for a
fatty liver it's
neuroprotective and even if someone is
on chemo or radiation uh therapy uh
berberine can help make that drug more
efficient so you could potentially take
less of it also if you take a blood
sugar problem like type two diabetes a
lot of that blood sugar that's elevated
is coming from our own body making this
glucose from the liver it's called gluco
neo genesis the formation of new sugar
well guess what berberine helps lower
glucon neogenesis and I think the big
thing that berberine does for people if
we take a look at what's really
happening deep in the Cell It's the
Improvement of the mitochondria we keep
coming back to this mitochondria because
most health problems are related to the
mitochondria so what does berberine do
to the mitochondria well it increases
the number of mitochondria that's called
mitochondrial biogenesis it helps clean
up damage mitochondria and as you might
already know cancers develop from a
damaged mitochondria so if you can clean
up these damaged mitochondria before it
becomes out of control this is probably
why it has a positive effect on
preventing cancer and it also helps make
the mitochondria more efficient so it's
going to allow you to make more energy
from the food that you eat in the
mitochondria it is the Superstar of
natural remedies and it has very minimal
side effects if any if you're taking it
in a normal amount like maybe one gram
per day or
1.5 grams per day so if you're not
exercising or not changing your diet and
you take this it's probably not going to
do much but if you combine this with a
healthy ketogenic diet with intermittent
fasting with exercise I think it can
greatly enhance your results now if you
have not seen my video on those Z and
exactly how it works and the problems
that it has and what you should do to
counter the bad effects if you take it
you should watch this video right
here
