hello and welcome to how to completely
ruin your health and well-being if
you're looking to make terrible choices
and sabotage your future health you've
come to the right place let's Dive Right
into my recommendations realize there is
no bad food group as long as you eat in
moderation you can eat absolutely
anything this includes junk food in
moderation but let's not call it junk
food let's call it fast food or Ultra
processed food that will make you feel a
little bit better the next time you buy
food spend most of your time in the
center of the grocery store ignoring the
perimeter this way you'll save a lot of
money and this is where all the cheap
empty calorie food is located and don't
forget to bring your kids just make sure
they're hungry and tired before you walk
into the store make sure you buy no
vegetables or meats or cheeses because
they go bad very quickly say hello to
the ultra process sugary starches seed
oils and processed snacks they virtually
have no expiration date remember the
more artif icial the better and
regarding red meat it's like smoking a
cigarette it causes cancer so stick with
the ultra process foods you will not
regret it step number two enjoy life
listen closely to this very important
message
tast
likea come on girl got to share a c with
[Music]
you want to live a little bit more
that's what the taste of C is for C
[Music]
like so quench your thirst and get
hydrated with these sugary sodas energy
drinks and sugar Laden fruit juices but
just make sure you ignore the fact that
they might lead to weight gain diabetes
and a whole host of other health issues
but so as I say Coke bad's life take
that to the Grave I mean take that to
heart also realize that our food pyramid
is based on science just ignore the
rumor that most of the scientists that
actually created the dietary guidelines
have conflict of interest you only live
once so enjoy yourself those wonderful
delicious chips that are like sponges
for hydrogenated seed oils added
synthetic sugars and monosodium
glutamate Will Comfort your soul and as
a really great benefit because of all
the preservatives they have no shelf
life they'll last for years so don't
worry not even the bugs we eat them
these Comfort foods will comfort you and
protect you against the stresses of Life
step three develop a sedentary lifestyle
avoid any form of exercise and embrace
your inner Couch Potato remember
Mobility is overrated exercise can be
dangerous I mean you could slip and fall
it's much safer to stay inside your
house and Studies have shown that if you
just fidget more while you're watching t
TV and eating that popcorn you can
actually burn a few more calories per
hour but just make sure you always have
plenty of excuses the weather the
holidays your busy schedule blame
something anything because it's not your
fault just cycle through your excuses
and never admit that you have anything
to do with any of your health problems
you've just been dealt some bad genes
you should have picked your parents a
little bit more wisely step four always
find a way to sabotage yourself when you
start making head way and make some
healthy changes or maybe you start to
lose some weight reward yourself
instantly with a doughnut a nice glass
of wine or a big bowl of ice cream step
five stay inside avoid the outdoors at
all cost who needs Sunshine fresh air
nature when you can stay indoors in your
own little bubble we do not want to let
all that dangerous Sun touch your skin
and if you do go outside lather your
body with sun blocker that way you can
block all your vitamin D I'm sorry I
meant UV radiation stay indoors because
if that nasty air pollution doesn't get
you the sun will couch surfing and binge
watching TV should be your next Main
Hobbies it's much safer stay glued to
that screen and you know any news about
this EMF radiation coming off your
computer screen or your TV screen it's
just fake news very soon the metaverse
will be here who needs a real world
experience when you can live your entire
life in a virtual reality bubble step
six eat eight meals a day now let's talk
about your new anti intermittent fasting
schedule the eight meal a day strategy
really works because you'll never feel
hungry ever again in fact you'll be
grazing all day long like a friendly cow
and don't forget to bring those snacks
everywhere you go after all you never
know when you might encounter a snack
emergency blood sugar crash no problem
that's why we have our glucose pills
waiting for you these will fix your
hypoglycemia your doctor has got your
back and they'll manage those blood
sugar spikes and crashes while you enjoy
your never-ending Feast step seven
realize all calories are exactly the
same and don't buy into this idea that
certain calories trigger certain
hormones eating a 500 calorie meal of
delicious donuts is exactly the same as
eating a balanced Whole Food
nutritionally dense 500 calorie meal
remember a calorie is a calorie this is
science step eight late night snacking
develop a late night snacking habit and
those High omega-6 fatty acid seed oil
snacks hey just go ahead and devour that
giant bowl of ice cream before bedtime
and induce a sugar coma I'm sorry I
meant induce a good night's sleep step
nine check with your doctor realize that
Alternative Care could be very dangerous
so always check with your doctor before
taking anything natural because they
have the experience in training in
nutrition they've done studies you know
60% of the time it works every time but
if in doubt ask Dr Google this is your
go-to 100% unbiased source of true
information and don't worry if you have
health illiteracy they will help you
identify what true misinformation is as
well step 10 Sleep listen you you have
plenty of time to sleep when you're dead
sleeping is overrated this is why God
invented coffee drink as much coffee as
you need to stay awake Step 11 embrace
your inner Pharmacy listen health is
about managing your diseases why bother
staying healthy when you can keep your
symptoms suppressed and your symptoms
managed until someday when they find the
Cure if one medication gives you a side
effect don't worry we can give you
another medication that can treat that
side effect very easily but don't worry
they wouldn't sell these drugs unless
they were safe and effective at least
most of the time I think it's really
important to choose your side effect
wisely and lastly step 12 stay blind and
unaware resist any change don't seek
knowledge about nutrition exercise or
Diet bad habits are a normal part of
life continue to believe that your
health condition is genetic and there's
nothing you can do about
it
