hi guys I had another request for some
healthy lemonade this person lived in
the South they consume a lot of lemonade
the wrong kind so what can you do to
make it healthy right um well first of
all I I like carbonated uh pelino you
can do perer you can just do regular
water filtered water if you want but um
I will mix actual lemon juice with water
with stevia so I'm just going to show
you this is my favorite Italian lemon
juice Italian volcano lemon juice this
is actually organic lime juice so I'm
making limeade but you can do lemonade
tastes very similar but this stuff is
from the healthish store it's awesome
but you can use just regular uh lemon
juice organic so I'm going to put uh
usually I'll put an ounce in there maybe
a little bit more maybe 2 oz three I
like a lot of lemon and uh this is also
really beneficial if you're doing a
ketogenic diet
and you are trying to prevent stones
kidney
stones or gout which is a possibility so
the next thing you want to do is you
want to add Stevia the sweetener okay
you can get just regular clear no
flavored Stevia liquid or lemon
flavored this is lemon flavored just
pull it up about halfway up squeeze it
in okay mix it
up and you have either lime lime a or
lemonade
okay it's totally healthy it's amazing
all the lemon stuff will help kind of
buffer any type of uh oxalate stones
that are growing in your body with
kidney stones or even gout it's great so
go ahead and try this and don't do the
sugar lemonade all right thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribe but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
