could you snacking or Benji be a medical
disease in this video we're gonna find
out the newest eating disorder called
binge eating disorder or bed published
in the dsm-5 the diagnostic Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders the fifth
edition describes it in detail but let's
see if you have this disorder do you
have excessive eating at least once a
week for a period of three months
do you eat every two hours have you been
eating more rapidly recently
are you eating until you're
uncomfortable sometimes do you ever eat
alone you ever feel guilt after eating
something that you know you shouldn't
have eaten or have you ever been on a
fat diet where you're cutting out a food
group like you're cutting out sugar or
carbohydrates or dairy and have you ever
engaged in sporadic fasting and binging
I think they call that intermittent
fasting well you know what you may be
suffering from the binge eating disorder
but don't worry there's a solution there
is a drug for that called vyvanse
vyvanse is a new application of an old
drug they use for some other things but
it's the only fda-approved solutions for
this disease and they improved it in
only 12 weeks which is pretty fast now
what was interesting about this drug is
they pre-screened anyone with
pre-existing heart conditions and took
those people out of the study so we
started with people with relatively good
hearts but check this out these are the
potential serious side effects sudden
cardiac death stroke significant high
blood pressure psychosis high rate of
abuse seeing and hearing things and I
have to say this for those of you that
are new to my channel I am completely
and utterly sarcastic I am NOT promoting
this solution for this disease it's my
opinion that snacking in binging is not
a medical disease it is a normal thing
that a lot of people go through and
just did health Aikido combined with him
in the fasting the need for snacks would
go way way down so if you're new to my
channel and you do have any of these and
you don't want to go the medical route I
put a link down below of exactly what to
do to fully handle the temptation of
binging and snacking
