hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the importance
of hydrochloric acid or stomach acid
your stomach acid is probably one of the
most important fluids in your entire
body because the Cascade of negative
effects that occur without this acid are
huge let's go through each one of them
so normally in your stomach you need a
very very strong acid that means a low
PH so 1 to three so it goes on a scale
from 1 to 14 so 1 to three is very very
acid so we need a very very strong
acidic stomach and that's why when
people say oh yeah um our bodies are
supposed to be alkaline well what about
the stomach they're probably talking
about the blood but your stomach needs
to be very very acid now here's the
thing as you age you're you lose your
stomach acid okay and when you lose your
stomach acid a lot of things happen in a
negative way um let's just take one
thing if the stomach is not acidic you
will not release the main enzyme called
pepsin now what is pepsin and what is an
enzyme an enzyme is something called a
catalyst or a thing that helps speat up
a chemical reaction in the body it helps
either break things down or builds
something back up so what's interesting
about enzymes is is they basically don't
necessarily get used up after they do
the work they're kind of like a
self-propelling energy that does all all
the work but doesn't use up its energy
it's it's pretty wild it's but it speeds
up the chemical reaction so pepsin is a
main catalyst or enzyme that breaks down
protein okay so that's what it does but
it takes a pH between 1 two and up to
three to release this enzyme so if
you're not releasing this enzyme you
can't break down protein one of the most
uh common symptoms would be intestinal
gas that's when we know we're not
getting this release of this pepsin okay
okay you're also going to get bloating
and other things but um what happens too
is that valve on top of the stomach is
controlled by the pH so the valve won't
necessarily close if the pH is not
strong so that's called uh acid reflx
you know um or a gird that's basically
because your stomach is not acid enough
what's really ironic is the way they
treat it is they give you an anti- acid
so you're going to feel better but then
you're going to feel worse because
you're taking the acid out of the system
system what they should do is put more
acid in there to fix it but they don't
really do that one of the challenges
with having um this valve not closed
tightly is that the enzyme splashes up
into not just the acid but the enzyme
can go right up all the way up your
esophagus up into your your larynx and
your vocal cords and that can create
chronic coughing it can create chronic
um horseness it can create um like that
little lump in in your throat a chronic
cough irritation uh asthma that's
because this enzyme is going right up in
here and the main reason is because this
is not acid enough so then it leaks up
into the esophagus so that's one symptom
um the three main purposes of the acid
are number one to uh help break down
proteins uh number two absorb minerals
and number three kill off microbes so
like if you see like a dog for example
eat um like use like eat raw meat you
know there's microbes and bacteria in
there a dog has a really strong stomach
acid and so that acid is just going to
kill all that bacteria well we also have
the acid in there to kill microbes as
well in case there's so we cannot have
any extra invading microbes come through
the stomach so it's if we don't have
enough acid we get a bacterial
overgrowth so you might have um extra
you know bacteria that shouldn't be
there um and you can get leaky gut
because undigested protein can leak
through the system and create all sorts
of immune reactions because then it goes
through the lymphatic system and your
immune system attacks it as being a
foreign body and Bam allergy because
allergies are always to proteins right
so um wonder why you know it's it starts
with the stomach acid that's
why so many people if they just get the
stomach right everything will do really
really good and then we have candida see
normal in your friendly uh stomach in
your friendly bacteria in your stomach
and your gut you you actually have a
normal candida in there that's supposed
to be helpful to you it's not a bad
thing it's only when it has an
overgrowth if the pH is not correct if
the pH is too alkaline you'll get an
overgrowth of the fungus type candida
okay so that'll happen and that can
happen in the mouth the vaginal area and
your intestines and your toenails all
over the place so that's one thing um
also hpylori hpylori lives in an
alkaline environment in fact it'll it'll
even alkalize your stomach to live it
doesn't survive in an acid medium so
normally like I think most people
actually have H pylori in the stomach
that's a negative microbe I mean it's
it's it's a it's a neutral microbe that
can activate and cause
damage if it's becomes unfriendly but
it's really controlled by the
environment if that environment is too
alkaline that hpor kicks in there and
you can have all these main side effects
from that inflammation gastritis all
those things so we have that issue and
then we also have rosacea rosacea is the
red face that comes from low stomach
acid as well that's one of the symptoms
uh gird we talked about that acid reflux
bloating gas indigestion is basic all
that means is you don't have enough
stomach acid okay it could be that
you're also taking anti acids which then
causing less acid in the stomach or even
stress can deplete your acids in your
stomach bad food junk food sugar a lot
of things take that acid out of the
stomach diarrhea um you know can do it
as well because you lose all your
stomach acids vomiting um people that
have um uh bulimia because they vomit
they can lose their stomach acids so
that's that's some causes now let's get
into um undigested protein in your
stomach if you can't break down protein
in your stomach and break down into
amino acid then you can't build body
tissues so there goes the hail hair nail
skin uh muscle protein uh not to mention
neurotransmitters like U adrenaline um
tryptophan all these amino acids that
are supposed to be there to help build
your hormones I mean serotonin is a
pleasure hormone so it's made from
protein so if that stomach is not right
you're not going to have the building
blocks to make those neurotransmitters
they're like hormone type things but
they travel through the nervous system
and then the last thing that it'll do is
it controls the absorption of minerals
so without that stomach being pH you
can't pull in calcium you can't pull in
magnesium
or zinc or um Iron so you have a
something called anemia even pernicious
anemia um basically it's low iron and it
could be also B12 different forms of
anemia but if you can't pull on that
iron then you get a whole a series of
additional side effects one is the
anxiety OCD sleeping problems tentis
that's ringing the ear palpitations with
the heart hair loss itchiness like you
can see the Cascade of effects that
occur from not having the stomach right
and because you have an acid reflux
condition or gird you're thinking I have
too much acid and you're basing all the
therapies on the wrong solution and
that's where people kind of go from bad
to worse and they're treating all these
other conditions when they if they just
fix the stomach a lot of things will
improve so I think fixing the stomach
will fix all the different PHS in the
body that's just my personal opinion
when the B12 um you need a strong acid
in your stomach to digest B in B12 so if
you don't have B12 you have visual
changes gate problems fatigue tingling
numbness memory problems a whole bunch
of things because B12 is involved in
your DNA it's involved in your um brain
tissue it's involved in your immune
system your energy your
metabolism so many things so there um
what I recommend of course in some of
the other videos I an apple cider
vinegar for those of people that don't
like to take apple cider vinegar um I do
have uh something that you can take in a
pill form and it's called apple cider
vinegar plus because I I have 50% of
this is apple cider vinegar powder and
50% of it's Bane hydrochloride which is
an acidifier so this is what I take
between me I'm actually right before a
meal to acidify my stomach and what it
does is is it starts to naturally give
you the acids that you're missing so you
can start building up that acidifier and
start to really correct the deeper cause
um I always recommend taking one before
a meal with each meal and then the next
day take two before each meal and then
take three before each meal until you
are feel really really really good in
your stomach and you're digesting
because you want to gradually increase
the acid um some people need a lot of
acidifiers to help fix your stomach and
they might even need six initially to
fix it and then you can back off over
time but you want to gradually go into
it you don't want to just take the huge
amount right off the bat but it's more I
like it because it's corrective because
once you have the hydrochloric acid your
body will tend to actually recycle it
and it'll start working better so it's a
great solution to uh fix a lot of
problems naturally without having to uh
make it work
okay so it's more corrective than
anything so I just wanted to touch on
the importance of hydrochloric acid and
give you some of the functions of what
it does and a deeper understanding of
the um of some myths that people have
about it so thanks for watching I'll see
you in the next video
