hi guys have a short video to talk about
some pretty wild facts about sugar okay
now this is four pounds of sugar right
here okay an average american consumes
between 26 and 31 teaspoons of sugar
every single day they will go through
this in 12 point 8 days that's a little
less than two weeks okay that much sugar
25 pounds of sugar right here right in
80 days that's how much sugar they're
consuming that's a little bit over two
and a half months an entire year they're
gonna go through four and a half of
these now you think that might affect
the pancreas a little bit now it's wild
to me is that the American Diabetes
Association still does not recognize
that the quantity of this much sugar
being the cause of diabetes they don't
connect the dots but I think you can
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
