So today we're going to take a part of
your body the lower back to be able to
identify deeper problems nutritionally
typically when someone has low back pain
what do they do they treat it right and
then they might take some medication and
they go on their way but there's no real
understanding of what's really behind
this low back pain especially if it
becomes chronic but you can do this with
any part of the body if you understand
the connections today we're going to
focus primarily on the lower back and
we're going to emphasize the nutritional
deficiency connection to lower back pain
now out of all the vitamins you can be
deficient in
vitamin D is the one that will create
low back pain probably more than any
other deficiency you see vitamin D is a
very powerful anti-inflammatory and when
you become deficient in vitamin D
probably the first place you're going to
notice it is in your lower back if an
infant is deficient in vitamin D maybe
because the mom was deficient during
pregnancy they can end up with all sorts
of structural skeletal problems like
bowed legs flat feet scoliosis problems
with your teeth chances are you might
need braces to correct an original
vitamin D deficiency vitamin D is also
intimately involved with bone formation
and if you're deficient you could
develop osteoporosis but not only
osteoporosis
osteopenia which is kind of a milder
version of osteoporosis but also this
other condition called
osteomalacia which is a severe
deficiency in children and their bones
become very very soft now one thing
that's related to vitamin D you may just
be efficient about M D or there could be
two other minerals that are deficient
that are aggravating or interfering with
your vitamin D levels in your blood one
is magnesium in fact you need magnesium
to help you metabolize and absorb
vitamin D vitamin D doesn't work that
well without magnesium if you have a
stiff back or your muscles are crappy in
your lower back and they can't seem to
relax
suspect it could be a magnesium
deficiency the other mineral involved in
this is boron Boron also increases
vitamin D in the body the absorption the
half-life vitamin D stays in your body
longer with Boron Boron also helps
increase magnesium and Boron is a really
good anti-inflammatory now if we look at
the other side of magnesium we get this
mineral called calcium
and if you have too much calcium that's
accumulating in your lower back that
could be called arthritis where you're
getting these bone spurs or calcium
deposits
or this other condition called stenosis
now stenosis is a situation where the
spinal column around the spinal cord is
not allowing enough space one reason for
that could be calcium buildup inside the
canal and so whether you have this
stenosis in your lower back or stenosis
in your arteries
or even arthritis the key vitamin to
focus on is vitamin K2 vitamin K2 helps
mobilize and remove calcium from the
soft tissues into the bone so it takes
calcium deposits and keeps them in the
right place and a lot of people are
deficient in vitamin K2 so vitamin K2
and vitamin D work together but I just
want to put that in the radar because if
you're trying to solve a problem and you
don't have all the information and you
don't know that when you take vitamin D3
you need K2 you can end up not really
getting the results that you want now
another vitamin that's involved with a
weak back suspect a vitamin E deficiency
now you have to realize that Alpha
tocopherol is not
vitamin E that might be one piece of
this vitamin E complex but just by
taking Alpha tocopherol it's probably
not going to do anything for your week
back what you want to take is either you
have two choices the whole vitamin E
complex maybe taking some wheat trim oil
which has everything
or you can take
the tocatrinal complex which is kind of
a newly discovered part of the vitamin E
complex which seems to work really good
in fact better than the tocopherols and
so you can either get a tocotrinal
complex okay or a wheat germ oil that
will greatly strengthen your lower back
I remember in practice I would
demonstrate this and someone with a weak
muscle especially of the lower back and
then they would take some vitamin E
within minutes they would become strong
so if you have problems with weak
muscles think about vitamin E the real
complex vitamin E also increases oxygen
into the muscles it's actually really
good to counter angina which is a lack
of oxygen in your heart in fact you'll
probably see empty bottles of vitamin E
at the top of most of the mountains on
planet Earth from climbers that use
vitamin E to handle some of the the
oxygen deficiency problems they have at
higher altitudes vitamin E also is great
for muscle atrophy if someone is losing
muscle okay maybe they're getting older
and they have a loss of muscle vitamin E
is really really important vitamin E is
also good for hot flashes but I would
make sure it's in the form of this wheat
germ oil now another mineral which is
really a trace mineral that's involved
in lower back pain
actually has to do with what's going on
to your disk okay
manganese which sounds very similar to
magnesium but it's completely different
is associated with disk problems in
collagen problems all these trace
minerals are involved in helping certain
proteins work and manganese is very
essential for collagen especially in
your discs your ligaments and your
tendons so if your manganese deficient
you can end up with all sorts of
problems in the disc a manganese
deficiency can also increase your risk
of getting scoliosis now generally
speaking
uh if you're consuming too many omega-6
fatty acids because you're on a diet
that involves a lot of grains or seed
oils and you don't have enough fish oils
with the Omega three fatty acids that
can set you up for overall inflammation
in the body or for example you're in a
diet that's very high in sugar and carbs
that can keep you inflamed so there are
many different things that are not
necessarily related to a vitamin
deficiency that can cause low back pain
like even kidney stones for example if
you have kidney stones you're going to
feel problems higher up in your lower
back okay it'll be like this deeper
gnawing tight painful area in the upper
part of your lower back that can spread
around to the front now you could also
have a gallstone that could mimic that
especially if it's on the right side so
now you have a deeper understanding of
how to evaluate lower back pain and a
lot of different connecting deficiencies
that could be at the root of it if you
haven't seen this video and how to
identify nutritional deficiencies by
using the face
check it out I put it up right here
