well when I was a kid you know I feel
like I could eat anything and in high
school if I wanted to grab a bag of
chips out of the vending machine I would
or if I wanted an ice cream bar or
something it didn't really affect me so
in your 20s anyone can lose weight but
when you get into 30s 40s and 50s
things change hormones change and your
metabolism slows down but as I started
to get older I noticed I wasn't losing
the weight
very few people burn actual fat what
happens they lose water weight they gain
back about two weeks later and they lose
it back and forth there are people that
exercise jours a day seven days a week
even running marathons and never lose
any weight the older I got you know I
even though I was exercising on a
regular basis I started I was putting
more weight on I just asked a number of
people and they said well you know try
this type of workout maybe you need to
look to weight maybe you need to
alternate more you know run one day lift
weights the next try this food don't eat
this you know cut out all your sugars
are you are you eating enough of this
there's only three million foods at the
grocery store and an unlimited
combination of things you can do wrong
it's very heartbreaking to see people
put so much effort into this and not see
any results so I got to the point where
I was just you know I was sort of
assigned myself I didn't know what to do
I was actually gaining weight and I
wasn't getting the results that I had in
the past
you need results you don't need more
hype you need to see actual weight loss
to keep you motivated that's what keeps
people going I got to the point where I
was like I guess it's just because I'm
getting older
this is why diets don't work because
they don't take in consideration the age
factor see it's not what you're doing
it's what your body stopped doing what I
tell people and this is very fascinating
is that they don't really have a weight
problem they have a hormone problem the
weight is just a symptom I really had no
idea that it was an issue of hormones
hormones are those little messages
chemical messages that tell the body
what to do like burn fat or store fat
and I didn't realize actually that there
was such a thing as a fat burning
hormone when dr. bird told me that I was
like really at the core of your
metabolism are these hormones that burn
fat but when you actually test a
person's metabolic rate it's actually
very very low it's actually burnt out so
when you trigger the hormones and
messages might be sent but the
metabolism is not receiving those
messages so it's like burn fat I can't
hear you
so what we have to do is we have to heal
and rejuvenate your metabolic rate only
then can you burn fat correctly I didn't
want anybody that was going to tell me
oh take this pill and it'll make you
feel better because it wasn't gonna fix
the issue
it was just gonna mask it hormones are
very very complex you have 600 hormones
six of them burn fat three of them make
fat and here's the thing just a little
bit of the wrong hormone like insulin
for example that's the bad hormone
that's triggered by sugar that can block
fat burning for eight hours to three
days let me give you example let's just
take a cookie 80 calories you could walk
it off in one mile but the problem is
the sugar that triggers insulin which is
that bad hormone from that one little
cookie can block fat burning for one day
in the future and everything you did the
day before my first visit with him
he explained as his techniques and
overtime I wasn't having to take naps
anymore
during work or during my lunch break and
going upstairs was easy as pie
it was so nice and my focus was you know
obviously much more in tune I had more
mental focus I had I feel like I had
more much more clarity in my thinking as
well and just in general I felt like I
my body was more clear
what's even more bizarre is that you
have all these weight loss programs that
don't even talk about the six fat
burning triggers I mean you have over
fifty billion dollars spent and weight
loss every year and you have thousands
of weight loss programs and the results
of these weight loss programs are only
like I have a point five percent success
rate that's because they don't address
hormones I mean there's there's the
glycemic index there's a good carb bad
card program but that's so clean
complete they're only talking about one
of the hormones are not talking about
all of them the key is finding out why
the person's metabolism is wore out
getting it rejuvenated and then teaching
the person what to do to trigger these
six fat burning hormones that works
I noticed weight loss probably about a
week and a half in
and in a four-week period I think I lost
15 to 20 pounds I think is what we
thought
I went from 155 maybe 157 down to about
one gosh it must have been more than 20
pounds because I went down to 130 so it
was about 25 pounds and that was in
about it that was about a month's time
it wasn't any longer than a month and
take a wild guess what destroys the
metabolic rate these other weight loss
programs it's kind of erotic that the
actual thing that you're trying to solve
it with is the thing that's causing the
problem yo-yo diets injections b12 shots
low calorie diets low nutrient diets all
those are designed to make you unhealthy
actually so you might lose some weight
but the weight comes right back if
you're struggling to lose weight and
you're not going anywhere
here's what you need to do trigger all
six fat burning hormones okay but more
importantly you have to avoid the three
hormones that make you fat and then
parallel to that we want to get your
metabolism healthy rejuvenated I would
like to invite people to experience my
program to overcome the barrier the age
barrier of weight loss so they really
can see results not just short term but
long term
