this video is for people with sty that
don't necessarily want to take the
steroid injection or have it lanced or
don't want to go on an antibiotic I'm
going to give you another solution which
I think is pretty scientific and when
we're talking about science we're
talking about the best theory and
there's not a lot of data on this sty
but I did find some really interesting
information that will lead us to uh I
think the best alternative solution what
is a sty well it's just little pimple or
on your eyelid usually involving a
sebaceous gland sebaceous glands are the
oil glands so apparently this gland is
plugged up it's not draining and it
involves an infection it's inflamed it's
red it's irritating and many times
people just let it go and within seven
days it goes away but what about these
sty that it keep coming back over and
over and over what's really behind this
problem and how can we get rid of it
once and for all so we want to ask some
really important questions what blocks a
sebaceous gland why is this bacteria
involved usually the staff bacteria in
this location of your eyelid and not
other places and I know there's not a
lot of information about this topic but
what do we know about the sebaceous
gland what do we know about cyst what do
we know about this staff infection one
of the things that we know is that
diabetics have a much higher incidence
of sty they also have a much higher
incidence of staff infections as well as
cystic acne which is similar to this sty
problem but on the face not on the
eyelid it's also interesting that
there's a much higher incidence of boils
in cysts with diabetics as well so this
is what I found sometimes the treatments
involved what's called retinoids it's a
type of vitamin A and we do know there's
this synthetic vitamin A medication used
for itic acne called Accutane but that
has some major side effects but anyway
there's some interesting information on
the relationship between vitamin A and
sty but if we look at one very
interesting thing that can occur with a
vitamin A deficiency is that you can get
this hyper keratosis that's a condition
where you're getting this roughened
extra layer of skin tissue in a certain
area of the body inside the Ducks which
are little tubes of the sebaceous gland
or the oil gland so that right there
tells us that a vitamin A deficiency can
clog up this oil gland and the sebum or
the oil can then build up and cause
pressure and inflammation so one big
purpose of vitamin A is it controls the
epithelial layer that's the outer
portion of your skin both external and
internally like even in your sinuses
underneath your eyelid or even in your
digestive tra track so vitamin A
controls that and if we're lacking that
control we don't necessarily get the
normal cells we can get some abnormal
cells as well and I did find a study on
humans and I'll put all this down below
that showed a significant vitamin A
deficiency in those who had a sty versus
those who did not and just as a side
note there are over aund in 40 million
children with a vitamin A deficiency
worldwide so it's a
common deficiency in fact for children
it's the second greatest deficiency
behind protein so iron and zinc are big
deficiencies but vitamin A is also a
very common deficiency if someone has a
vitamin A deficiency it can alter the
mucous membranes of their eye as well as
the cornea and in some cases also cause
dry eye vitamin A is also intimately
involved in the immune system so when
someone's deficient in vitamin A they
can be a lot more SU suceptible to
getting an infection now let's shift
gears to this staff infection okay the
staff bacteria apparently and I
mentioned this before diabetics have a
much greater risk of having staff
infections than
non-diabetics in one study uh with
uncontrolled blood sugars it was found
that there is a much greater impaired
immune reaction with the neutrophils
that's like the Frontline uh defense
cell in their fighting ability with
something called super oxide that's kind
of like the Weaponry that they use to
kill pathogens and they found this which
I think is very interesting when they
injected insulin and restored the blood
sugars to normal the neutrophils and
that super oxide went back to normal now
what does that mean in Lay person's
terms it means that if you have high
blood sugars your immune system is
impaired you also have something called
insulin resistance which means inside
the cells you actually have a deficiency
of insulin yet in the blood you might
have a lot of insulin but the insulin
resistance comes from having a diet
that's very high in carbs and sugar and
so people with insulin resistance really
deep down the side have a insulin
deficiency and so when you give the
person more insulin all of a sudden
their immune system does better and
other things improve too but that's not
the way to really ultimately fix
diabetes because diabetes is really a
disease of high sugar so what you want
to do is you want to get the sugar out
of the diet you want to go on a low carb
diet for sure so we have the vitamin A
Connection we have this staff connected
to diabetes and blood sugar connection
and then we have vitamin D so there's
another association with vitamin D
deficiency with just about every single
eye problem you can think of involving
glucoma and cataracts and overall
inflammation in more susceptibility to
not just infections but having sty and
then we get to this other new nutrient
called zinc now zinc is important in
reducing the incidence of getting a sty
so it might not help on the front end
but it can actually build up your immune
system to reduce the recurrence of sty
so before I kind of summarize the best
solution um the question is why would
someone be deficient in vitamin A isn't
that easy to get I mean it's in salad
it's in kale it's in spinach right not
very much of the retinol okay that's the
active for form there's a lot of beta
carotene but beta carotene is not the
active form of vitamin A it is the
precursor and so you'd have to consume a
tremendous amount of kale to get barely
any retinol which is the active form of
vitamin A at all so it could be that
you're just not consuming enough of the
right foods that have the active form of
vitamin A that's number one number two
you might have some gut inflammation uh
that can block the absorption of vitamin
A or a liver issue or a gallbladder
issue maybe you don't have a gallbladder
or maybe you just don't have enough bile
to absorb this vitamin A from the food
that you're eating now vitamin A the
active form of vitamin A retinol is very
high in beef liver which not a lot of
people consume that but it's also high
in eggs okay egg yolks and there's also
some vitamin A in fish as well but out
of all the fish or fish oil the cod
liver oil has the most vitamin A and cod
liver oil has vitamin D other things
that can complete you of vitamin A would
be a zinc deficiency which is
interesting that that's connected also
uh alcohol can do it and even being on
antibiotics so in summary what should
you be doing number one you should be
changing your diet coming off the sugars
going on the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet which I will put a link
right down below also in another study I
found with mice when they fed these mice
a lot of sugar the amount of staff
bacteria went up considerably so realize
when you eat sugar you're kind of
paralyzing your immune system and also
when you eat sugar if you're female
you're increasing your androgens okay
that's there's a condition called PCOS
polycystic ovarian syndrome that comes
from too much Androgen but that's really
coming from too much insulin because
their diet is too high in carbs and too
much Androgen increases something called
sebum which is the oil in the sebaceous
gland or the oil gland which is the
exact thing we're trying to regulate and
improve and so the big takeaway is that
too much sugar kind of
paralyzes the uh immune system and
allows these pathogenic bacteria to grow
all over the place in places where you
probably have more weaknesses than
others like where you have a vitamin A
deficiency in the sebaceous gland so
that could explain why you have that
problem in that location it's kind of
The Perfect Storm we have a blood sugar
problem with a vitamin A defici
deficiency with maybe a zinc deficiency
with a vitamin D deficiency but if you
take cod liver oil you pretty much
handled your vitamin A and your vitamin
D and if you take some zinc that just
might also um help you uh keep it from
coming back and I would probably take
200 milligrams for just one week okay
and then you can come down considerably
just to really fulfill any type of
deficiencies that you have and one last
thing that can help speed things up very
fast is to take a clove of garlic do not
get this in your eye okay cuz it will
burn on top of your eyelid wherever that
sty is and you just gently rub it in
there a few times a day and that has
something called Allison which is a very
powerful antibacterial effect and you
can even take the tea bag from green tea
okay so you drink the the green tea take
the tea bag let it cool down a little
bit maybe it's a little bit warm and
have that on your eyelid where the dye
is as well and that can greatly help but
the thing to start with right off the
bat is to get on this low carb diet and
for more information on that you should
watch this video right here
