you must know this so this presentation
is an intriguing talk about viruses a
virus is dead it's not alive yet it can
destroy your body so let me just show
you something this is a cell if we open
up the cell it has a bunch of things in
it okay you can see it has all these
different they're called organel they're
just little tiny parts of this huge
Factory that makes stuff okay you have
the mitochondria here which is the
energy Factory you have the rib
which is basically a protein factory and
then you have the nucleus right in the
center here well guess what viruses
don't have any of this stuff right here
in fact viruses are not even cells a
virus is just some blueprints with the
sack around it that has no energy no
machine it cannot do anything outside
your cell today we're going to get into
some potential theories on where viruses
really came from it's really interesting
and viruses one hand can kill you but on
the other hand they can actually really
help you and I'm going to get into that
as well but to understand viruses you
have to just get a little bit of a
foundation of what they are and what
they're not viruses are not cells
they're very tiny things that compare to
the cell so they come in contact with a
cell and it's like a lock in a key
something gets inserted like a spike
protein and it just activates something
that then causes a chain reaction in
your body which involves the hijack in
of your Machinery so they basically can
tap into your energy use your resources
not theirs for their survival and then
they start to reproduce and make more of
themselves and then they explode your
cell okay they're not nice they're
classified as parasitic now before I get
into some of the theories on where
viruses came from which is a huge
mystery I want to just cover some ways
that these viruses evade your immune
system there's one type of virus they
rupture the cell membrane they
disintegrate it they're called liic
viruses and then the other type of
viruses are called latent viruses so
they also destroy your cell but soon
after the initial infection they invade
your DNA and they go silent and then one
day you get a little bit older and you
go through stress and Bam they come out
of remission and they become reactivated
like herpes simplex like that little
blister you get on your lip is one
example HIV is another example Epstein
by virus is another one so the problem
with the latent viruses is they pretty
much last a very long time in your body
and they never go away and as long as
you don't experience a lot of stress or
poor health you might be okay but the
litic viruses do their destruction and
the immune system eventually takes care
of them and wipes them out it's just
wild that these viruses even exist in
the first place where do they come from
and why why are they here the first one
is called the virus first hypothesis in
this Theory the virus has been thought
to come before even our cells existed
another theory is called reduction
theory in this Theory a virus is some
type of remnants or residual something
from some living cell so it's lost its
ability to survive independently and so
it must need another cell to tap into
its energy then you get this other
theory is called the giant virus and the
fourth domain this really has challenged
the traditional theory of viruses
because a giant virus is a lot more
complex and the theory goes that viruses
are a fourth domain so you have
different types of cells you have
bacteria cells you have other cells it's
not really a cell it's just an entity
then you get this next theory that has
to do with contribution to Evolution or
having something evolve and this Theory
goes like this you have this thing
called horizontal Gene transfer it's
kind of like sharing knowledge key
knowledge to help someone survive you
can pass down Knowledge from you to your
children in fact 8% of our genes have
viral components then the last theory
has to do with viruses being a necessary
tool to help with survival now those are
all the theories that are known there's
a couple other ones but I just want to
add my two cents at this point what I
think the purpose of viruses are for
your immune system so in the immune
system you have two types you have the
type of immune system that you were born
with it's called the innate your mother
gave it to you but you also have another
part of an immune system called the
acquired immune system this is the part
that you need to develop over time and
you cannot develop it without viruses
and they cause your immune system to
adapt and become very very strong if you
let this process happen so this is why I
done videos on this where like with the
child when they get sick and they have a
fever the response is just to stop the
fever and through a series of infections
that immune system gets trained if we
never let our immune system get trained
it can never develop and become strong
viruses have given us the evolutionary
pressure to develop this robust immune
system this could relate to just
exercise right if you've never exercised
before how strong are you really going
to be can you actually really build up
this Fitness Reserve no not without
exercise and so this side will develop
strategies to help them survive and then
our bodies will also develop other
strategies so they're sitting there
waiting and waiting for the door to open
for you to get weak now other viruses
like the Epstein bar virus for example
there's many of these that do this but
the Epstein bar virus downgrades your
vitamin D receptor because somehow it
knows that vitamin D is really essential
for your entire immune system so I just
have to explain something about vitamin
D that's super
important a lot of people don't know
about this in fact most doctors do not
know that there's two different systems
for vitamin D and there's three
different types of vitamin D you have
vitamin D that comes from the Sun and
then you also have the vitamin D that
gets stored in the blood and then you
have the last vitamin D which gets
activated inside the receptors wherever
it goes okay so there's two systems of
vitamin D one is all about calcium and
Bone and the other system is about
everything else okay it's non-calcium
functions immune system is the big one
the most important thing that you need
to know is the vitamin D in the blood is
in an inactive form and this is mainly
to feed the bone a very tiny bit of it
like
0.4% of it feeds the immune system so if
you want a strong immune system but
you're not getting daily amount of
either Sun or the supplement or vitamin
D in from the food your immune system is
going to suffer because the halflife is
24 hours for the bone you can get by
with like 600 to 800 IUS but for the
immune system you need a minimum amount
of 10,000 IUS 10,000 IUS would be
basically 20 minutes in the Sun but the
average person needs 10,000 I use every
single day to support a healthy immune
system then you also have many viruses
including the Rhino viruses which gives
you the common cold they need zinc and
your immune system needs zinc too
because zinc also turns down virus
reproduction and then you have another
virus called HIV what that does is it
Targets this very specific immune cell
that is like the quarterback of the
entire immune system and it takes that
one out one way to counter that just as
a side note is selenium selenium is in
Brazil nuts it's it's also in shellfish
and if you have enough selenium you can
reactivate that cell and get it to work
right so now I want to just touch
briefly on what reactivates certain
viruses that are latent or in remission
as you age you become weaker and also
the more stress you have the more
cortisol you have the weaker you're
going to become so cortisol suppresses
your immune system in practice I notice
a lot of people that had viral
infections had them right after
a severe stress and then other viruses
can be reactivated through ultraviolet
radiation the sunlight but the secret to
this entire presentation is what can we
do about viruses you have two specific
types of immune cells that kill off
viruses one is called the cytotoxic t-
cell the other one is called the natural
killer cell both of these can be greatly
strengthened okay and I'm going to go
through a list of all the things that
you can do vitamin D is hands down the
most important nutrient for your immune
system it's a natural immune modulator
it means that if your immune system is
working too much or too slow or not
enough it'll bring it to normal number
two is zinc I already talked about that
zinc increases the immune system many
different ways one way it counteracts
this whole viral shutdown of your zinc
Supply another way is zinc just stops
the reproduction of viruses then of
course you have vitamin C C right the
best vitamin C food you can eat is raw
sourkraut one cup of that a few times a
week would give you 700 milligrams of
Vitamin C sleep is another important
thing try like heck to get 8 hours of
sleep you know I was at one time
bragging because I didn't need much
sleep you know I can get by I can get up
really early that was a very stupid
thing to brag about because I'm telling
you seven eight hours of sleep is a
necessity number five the reduction of
stress whether it's physical work going
for a walk in nature doing stretches is
very very important also if you have a
fever don't try to get rid of it right
away why because fever Cooks the virus
and so when you take some type of thing
like an aspirin or whatever to try to
get rid of the fever now you prolong the
infection you don't allow the body to
run through its training cycle of
fighting off the infection but if your
fever gets you know above 104 Fahrenheit
which is 40Â° C at that point maybe you
do something but not at lower
temperatures number six garlic very
important number seven Elderberry
awesome for viruses intermittent fasting
very powerful also magnesium helps
increase the killer tea cells I recently
stumbled on information so one way to
strengthen the immune system is to take
about 800 milligrams in the evening
before you go to bed Believe It or Not
laughter can also increase these killer
tea cells viruses outside your cells are
powerless they can't do anything they
just float around they have no energy no
mechanics so this is why it's important
to understand that you need to go
through infections to build up your
immune system and you need the key
nutrition to support and strengthen the
immune system itself versus the other
Viewpoint which is not true where you
have a virus that is alive which is not
true and it's controlling your body it's
stronger than your body it goes into
your body and at all cost you just need
to suppress and try to kill it off
there's all sorts of medications which
ends up weakening your immune system so
remember this concept and apply it to
your lifestyle
