hi guys in this video I'm going to talk
about the cognitive and mood effects of
doing Kido an intimate of fasting
unfortunately there's not a lot of
studies that are done I mean first of
all who's gonna sponsor those studies
the drug companies the food
manufacturing companies no so there's
not a lot of studies however there is
some extensive Studies on epilepsy being
improved on the Kido the other problem
is that there's no standard keto diet
out there okay so you have traditional
ketosis which you're using margarine and
oil and a lot of unhealthy things which
I don't recommend even the camp programs
complementary and alternative health
funding and NIH first of all I know the
doctors on the board are not very open
to alternative medicine in fact they're
real skeptical so you're probably not
gonna see a lot of grants being
authorized to do Studies on healthy
ketosis so and unfortunately you're
probably going to just have to do your
own Studies on your own body to see if
it works for you now if we flip it and
look at the studies done with people
with high blood sugars and high insulin
we can clearly see that doing high carb
is not good for the brain causing
dementia it actually causes atrophy of
the brain shrinkage of your brain it
destroys the part of the brain called
hippocampus so you lose your memory so
we know the on the output extreme that
being a diabetic is not good for the
brain and your memory and your mood now
let's say someone has hypoglycemia low
blood sugars well I already know the
mood is going to be greatly affected
irritability anxiety and definitely
sadness and depression those are known
effects from low blood sugar and that
could be coming from the insulin
resistance okay because the body that
makes more insulin to shove down that
blood sugar but it could be like
borderline so there's a lot of factors
here because there's one thing about the
brain the brain does not store sugar
okay it doesn't have glycogen or it
doesn't like the liver has a glycogen
Reserve the brain doesn't have its own
reserve of stored sugar so it gets its
from the blood so if there's low blood
sugar then the brain suffers you can get
headaches migraines and a lot of mood
disorders and I know from personal
experience working with thousands of
people when you fix this blood sugar you
see their mood elevates greatly so I
know it's true but of course we don't
have the studies yet so then if you have
instant resistance where the insulin is
not connecting the cell you're not going
to be able to absorb the amino acids
that are supposed to be there to build
the neurotransmitters and just that
alone if you're deficient in serotonin
or dopamine or GABA look look at what
that can do to your overall mood and
cognitive function so both the cognitive
function your focus your memory your
concentration and your overall emotional
state can be greatly affected by your
blood sugars and that's why keto is
going to help you and that's why Pido
can be so powerful because number one it
stimulates gaba which is a
neurotransmitter it actually reduces
inflammation in the brain and throughout
the body and if you add in a minute
fasting in there you can greatly improve
insulin sensitivity there by absorbing
the amino acids in making the
neurotransmitters again in fact in a
minute fasting will cause your the
regrowing of neurons you can actually
build brain tissue by doing in a minute
fasting and reduce the amyloid plaque
involved in dementia so rather than wait
for someone someday to fund as research
do your own research on yourself try
healthy keto and then fasting and see
how it can affect your cognitive
function in your overall mood
