had another question related to a
recovering alcoholic and what would be
the best foods for that individual well
what do you have you have liver damage
maybe some inflammation maybe a fatty
liver maybe even cirrhosis
you definitely have nutritional
deficiencies so the best foods that I
would recommend starting from the top
would be cruciferous vegetables
why because cruciferous vegetables have
an added X Factor they have a lot more
phytonutrients that other vegetables
just don't have and when we're dealing
with repairing liver function we need a
lot of natural antioxidants from the
food because there's so much oxidation
and free radical damage now as far as
deficiencies are concerned you're gonna
see definitely low vitamin b1 you're
gonna see other B vitamins deficient
definitely going to see zinc deficient a
lot of other trace minerals so for that
reason number 2 shellfish shellfish
contain all of the trace minerals very
very high in selenium and zinc and
iodine which is great for the liver and
especially the selenium both of them can
act as antioxidants now number three we
have sunflower seeds sunflower seeds are
very high in vitamin b1 which is very
very important in liver function and
definitely if the person has drank
alcohol they're going to be deficient in
vitamin b1
but of course my favorite is nutritional
yeast you're going to get all of the B
vitamins and nutritional yeast and
nutritional yeast provides a natural
form of course if you get the version
that's not enriched with synthetic
vitamins but if you're recovering
alcoholic you really need to increase
this one right here okay nutritionally a
lot of it okay next is fish and I'm
talking about wild caught fish because
of the omega-3 which is very
anti-inflammatory so it's going to help
inflammation and provide you with some
really good quality proteins out of all
the fish you want to do the fattier fish
salmon and sardines alright number five
large salads okay
of course the salad could be cruciferous
vegetables but
sometimes people like to steam these but
I always recommend doing like raw salads
large salads that's very very healthy
for the liver it will also provide you
with vitamin C which is a very important
antioxidant for your liver and it's
interesting because if you go to a
restaurant I was at a restaurant a
couple days ago and I'm looking around
and like no one is ordering salads
except me and so they're just eating the
protein fat the carbs but no salads an
average American consumes only 1.5 cups
of salad per day so where are they going
to get their vitamin C where are they
gonna get their potassium large salads
actually will help an alcoholic recover
they want to do moderate protein large
amounts of greens and generally
nutrient-dense foods now for the
inflammation that could be going on and
for the cirrhosis they need to be doing
in a minute fasting I have a video down
below exactly how to do that one to two
meals a day and make sure those meals
are big enough so they're not hungry
between the meals so you want to do in a
minute fasting with some periodic
prolonged fasting
why so you can create this condition
called a Toph Ajit the tapa ji is like a
self-cleaning oven it's where your body
starts to clean up the old damaged
proteins which you're going to see in
cirrhosis and help turn those into
healthy new amino acids and that happens
roughly about an 18 hour fast so if you
were to do all mad one meal a day you
would have enough at otha ji to really
see some great great improvement but
then if you were to end on top of that
maybe every week or every two weeks a
longer fast you would really speed up
the results now
kombucha tea is a really good product if
you get the one with the lowest amounts
of sugar to act as a substitute for beer
or wine because the consistency of it is
a kind of a thick carbonated beverage
and it's kind of similar to an alcohol
beverage where it can actually help
relax the person and make them feel
calmer so I do recommend
that and it does have a small amount of
alcohol like but it's so insignificant
it's not going to create a problem if
you wanted to take it the next level
these are the nutrients that I would
recommend to help someone repair liver
damage now what these nutrients do is
they increase glutathione which is the
most important antioxidant for the liver
for repair and glutathione is the thing
to actually speed up the toxic effective
alcohol like when you have a hangover so
it cleans up acetyl aldehyde which is
the byproduct of alcohol what alcohol
turns into in the liver so it cleans it
up but the problem with taking
glutathione directly sometimes is that
it gets broken down and you don't really
get the full benefit so I recommend
taking the precursors cysteine glycine
glutamine and AC these will really help
and also vitamin C is needed to make
glutathione and also zinc as well and
zinc will also replace what you're
deficient in as well and you can get
your B vitamins from nutritional yeast
right here and milk thistle is one of
the best herbs to support a healthy
liver in addition this alone will
increase glutathione so those are the
things I would recommend for a
recovering alcoholic so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
