I'd like to discuss ALS amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis it's not very common
but there's not a lot of data on it and
I stumbled on this incredible book on
this topic I want to share with you some
amazing things about this disease now
what is ALS it's a progressive
neurodegenerative disease that affects
different muscle groups and it's fatal
and uh people last between 3 to 5 years
roughly about 20 th000 people a year
develop this so it's not very common but
boy if you have this you need all the
data presently if I'm not mistaken
there's only one treatment that only
extends your life by five months and the
cost of it is like $1,400 a month so the
information I'm going to share with you
sounds very very promising very exciting
and it's from a book called ALS puzzle
solved so the person who wrote this book
has a very unique way of looking at
things very similar to how I look at
things you know you list at all the
unique things with this disorder and you
start to pull a string what's behind
this what's behind that what's the
connection between this and that and
they did a really good job of connecting
the dots so I going to share with you
what this person found so the first
thing is the onset of this
disease is between 60 years old and 70
years old it doesn't happen when you're
younger so that's interesting it's
usually higher in men than women except
for when a woman goes through menopause
the ratio goes up where it's like a one:
one ratio so that's very interesting
there's something about menopause or
aging that triggers this disorder
there's also data that shows that
there's a potential mutation in certain
people with this disorder the mutation
has to do with sod and that stands for
super oxide dismutase not that you need
to know that but that's a an enzyme
that's a very powerful antioxidant which
is going to raise the level of oxidation
in free radical damage and that's called
oxidative stress which makes sense
because that's going to affect the
nervous system that affects the muscles
to a certain degree there's some mixed
reviews on whether it's an autoimmune
disease or not um the jury is still out
because typical immunosuppressant drugs
don't work with this condition so that
makes me believe that it's probably not
an autoimmune disease also it spreads
gradually from a certain point there's
some data
that suggests that it could be stemming
from an old injury to the spinal column
there's other data that shows that
there's a calcium buildup in certain
parts of the spinal column there's more
data that shows that there's heavy
metals involved the solution is to take
certain B vitamins uh so I'm not going
to get into that but I just wanted to
bring that up but overall as we age
there's definitely a shift from
antioxidants to more oxidation then um
the book goes into some really
interesting hormone Al shifts after
menopause or even with a man uh as they
get to be 60 years old or 70 there's all
sorts of hormonal shifts that go on for
females we're going to see a plummeting
estrogen hormone right we're also going
to see a plummeting progesterone hormone
but even more than the estrogen we also
have a drop in melatonin maybe you
remember melatonin being a sleep hormone
but
melatonin also helps the inside of your
cells as an antioxidant there's also
other hormones that decrease like
they're called precursors to all of the
sex hormones like
DHEA and another precursor called prone
all of those decrease but there are two
hormones that greatly Spike and go
higher and that would be a follicule
stimulating hormone
FSH and luteinizing hormone LH so those
are the ones that are going high the way
you have to look at hormones is is not
individually look at them on a pathway
on a circuit and so if we're getting
massively high levels of LH and FSH that
usually means that there's very very low
um sex hormones estrogen progesterone
testosterone so that kind of makes sense
well check this out progesterone is one
of the most potent neuroprotective
hormones and some additional data is
that there's some experiment done on
mice and it shows that uh when give mice
progesterone uh there seems to be a
greater uh level of autophagy in the
spinal column so if you have damage
going on in a certain part of your body
autophagy can kind of clean it up and
make new cells clue number two is
melatonin you probably know that
melatonin helps you sleep but you may
have not known that melatonin also is
one of the most potent antioxidants
inside the
mitochondria and as we age that
melatonin go goes down and
melatonin stimulates that sod
antioxidant enzyme but the problem is
it's too low to do its work right to
overcompensate for this mutation that
apparently could be causing this whole
problem in the first place uh as you age
you lose this protective antioxidant uh
Network and you lose certain hormones
that protect the nervous system and
let's say there's an old injury in your
spinal column that could get triggered
with various things but I think the
biggest thing is this shift in hormones
which then relates to this shift in
antioxidants and protective factors so
the first thing you'd want to supplement
is melatonin what we want to do is we
want to bring your melatonin back to
where you were when you were 20 years
old because anything we can do to kind
of bring back these hormones potentially
we can maybe put this thing in remission
so you might need levels you know 75
milligram 100 milligram I don't know but
but that's for you to kind of do some
research on I would also do infrared
therapy just because infrared can
increase melatonin but I don't know if
it's going to be enough to really bring
your melatonin high enough to really
create this change because melatonin
suppresses that FSH follicule
stimulating hormone as well as
lutenizing hormone the LH melatonin also
enhances progesterone what a coincidence
but in addition to taking melatonin and
doing
infrared I would also recommend to take
the precursor to Progesterone pregnet
alone that way we can give your body all
the material so it can make as much
progesterone as it needs pregnant alone
is an available natural thing you can
get anywhere and you might need like 100
milligrams of that I mean it would be
good to get your levels tested so you
could see how low you are and work with
someone to get the exact dosage also
what's recommended is Resveratrol
Resveratrol has many different different
really amazing properties one being a
powerful antioxidant which can also
decrease the toxicity going on in this
condition what's also recommended is
vitamin K2 which could help balance out
that soft tissue calcium that could be
developing as well and just make sure
you're taking enough B vitamins but in a
natural form that is the summary of This
what I think is an amazing book in a
discovery and definitely a solution to
try since there's not a lot of solutions
out there for this terrible terrible
disorder if you have not seen my video
on
melatonin I think you'll really like
that and I put that up right here check
it
out
