so some years back I moved from one
state to another we packed up this uh
massive trailer that I was going to
drive to another state and Tow my car on
the back and then my wife and kids were
going to fly to where we're going and
we'd meet them at a certain location so
I'm driving on the street and I'm
actually taking these small little town
roads in the middle of nowhere and I'm
driving along and all of a sudden my
eyes are really dry and so I'm blinking
my eyes really sticky and I close it and
I open up and my cornea rips and now I
can't see so I could barely drive with
one eye and I'm driving down the street
and I'm like now what I need to pull off
and maybe get some rest right so I pull
off somewhere in some little town in the
middle of nowhere and I find a little uh
Motel six or something and I go in there
and I'm going to just take a nap right
so I lay there for a couple hours fall
asleep and I I'm like okay good so it's
all healed up I don't feel it I open my
eye and it rips again I'm like oh no I
need to find an ey doctor it's a
Saturday okay so I start walking on the
side of the street looking for an eye
doctor you know just stumbling around
and I happen to look up it happens to be
an eye doctor right right down the
street I'm like so I go up to the office
knocking the door they says oh yeah we
can't see you until Monday because we're
really backed up and I'm like no I I
need to get on the road because I have
to meet my My Wife and Kids very soon
and so they said I'm sorry we can't see
you and I just basically walked right
back to the doctor's office and I said
listen I need your help I need to you
need to do something with my eye I
cannot see I have to drive back so he
gives me a little couple drops of
medication now I can see because it
numbs the pain I get back on the road
and then I eventually make it to my
destination what that was was something
called dry up ey so let's take a look at
my whiteboard here dry eye little did I
know that this was a vitamin A
deficiency still be sticky and it can
rip your cornea and it's very irritating
also a vitamin A deficiency can cause
night blindness now typically when
someone's deficient of vitamin A it
could be they're eating too much junk
food and in my case that's what it was
or it could be a problem with the
gallbladder so they can't extract the
vitamin A from the food but typically
you're going to get vitamin A from egg
yolks liver butter cod liver oil now a
lot of times people will say that uh you
can get your vitamin A from Plants
because there's a lot of vitamin A but
in reality what you have in plants is
the precursor called beta carotene but
the conversion is not that much so you
would have to consume a tremendous
amount of vegetables to just get a
little bit of the active form of vitamin
A which is retinol and also as a side
note you need need zinc to allow vitamin
A to work so you could be getting enough
vitamin A but not enough zinc zinc is in
red meat it's in oysters shellfish it's
in liver but you're not going to get a
lot of zinc if you're eating refined
foods and refined sugar the next
condition I want to talk about is
something called retinopathy you usually
see that with diabetes that's a problem
with the retina the retina is basically
brain tissue that's extending into the
eye it's picking up information and it's
bringing into the brain so you can
actually see and diabetes is the number
one cause of retinopathy and so all this
glucose is creating oxidation or rusting
on your nervous system it's a lot of
free radical damage a lot of problems so
the antidote to that is something called
benine benine is a type of B1 that's
made in a fat side form so it can go
into the nerve tissue so many
complications of diabetes like
peripheral
neuropathy like diabetic retinopathy can
be helped by taking higher doses of
benot toine it can act as an antioxidant
and it actually really helps to support
the nervous system and the blood flow to
the nerves especially in the retina now
we get to this thing called floaters
okay when you consume protein with sugar
it causes this chemical reaction called
glycation so it sticks together and it
becomes Like Glue and it gets stuck in
the body and that's what floaters are
now the way to get rid of floaters one
is just by changing your diet and that
could handle it right there low carb can
help it and some people even need to do
what's called carnivore for a month or
two but also there's a condition called
autophagy where your body is recycling
damaged proteins anything in the body
recycled that and the way to get your
body in autophagy is doing fasting this
is why I recommend if you have floaters
you should be doing intermittent fasting
and sometimes prolonged fasting that can
really help clean up those floaters if
you have them all right let's dive into
this thing called macular degeneration
now sometimes you'll hear age related
macular degeneration and it's
interesting how they put this cause the
age you're getting older that's what's
causing this I I just don't buy it and I
don't think everyone as they get older
gets macular degeneration but the first
of all what is the macula well that's
the back part of the eye that's
extending out of the brain there's a lot
of things that can affect that so you
have blue light okay blue light that's
your LED light all the smartphones your
laptop you also have of course the
obvious stuff alcohol smoking sugar but
the biggest thing is the SE seed oils
and so he's an MD that specializes in
eye diseases and he made this huge
connection between seed oils and macular
degeneration so all these seed oils are
going to Lodge into this membrane and
it's going to get stuck there for like 3
years and so the problem is these are
rancid oils and anything that increases
inflammation like Omega 6 oils seed oils
are going to cause more of a
degeneration not just with the
immaculate but different parts of the
eye as well and of course the antidote
to that is to cut down on the seed oils
and then increase the Omega three fats
there's three natural compounds that
protect you against macular degeneration
and that would be lutein zanthin and
miso zanthin and all three of these are
carotenoids so where do you get lutein
zanthin or meso zanthin well you can get
it from Green green
vegetables yellow vegetables or fruits
orange vegetables or fruits you can get
it from egg yolks
Seafood like salmon and shrimp and also
grass-fed animals I sent my beef into a
study I live on a farm and I I raised
some beef guess what we had a tremendous
amount of carotenoids in that beef now
also macul degeneration is the second
cause of blindness in adult
and so when we start to increase these
in our diet we can sometimes improve our
vision all right let's now talk about
glucoma okay this is a an eye condition
where you have a lot of pressure in the
eye and um the pressure is creating
damage on the back part of the eye where
the retina is now I recently did an
entire video on this topic that was
based on a book by an optomologist I'm
taking high doses of vitamin D4 glucoma
and apparently there's some great
results when you normally check the
blood this doctor mentioned the current
normal values are severely outdated
especially for a vitamin D deficiency
being like below 20 nanograms per
milliliter I mean that's like so
outdated he
recommends vitamin D levels to be
between 100 nanograms per milliliter to
150 nanograms per milliliter and the
reason for that is that apparently this
condition there's a lot of evidence that
it's an autoimmune disease so if that's
true then you need to break through the
resistance so you have to take a lot of
vitamin D to penetrate that barrier and
resolving the problem and now let's talk
a little bit about cataracts cataracts
are an opaque situation with the lens of
the eye sticky proteins develop in the
body that become nonfunctional because
you're consuming sugar in general and
the
antidote is vitamin D in higher amounts
another remedy called n acetal carnosine
drops if you can find them and then zinc
all of these contain antioxidants that
will give protection against the eye so
anytime you see like a a vegetable or
even a fruit that's dark purple or red
or orange or yellow all of those
pigments are antioxidants that can
greatly help the eye now if you haven't
seen my recent video on glucoma that
would be a really good one to see next
simply because of the amount of details
I give you for vitamin D so check that
out right here
