today we're going to show you how to
make thick and shiny hair and as you
know with my videos I like to tell you
what's behind things what's the root
cause of certain things and when we talk
about hair realize that anything going
on with your hair is the tip of the
iceberg and I'm not interested in having
you take more supplements we're going to
relate a lot of this to your diet and
food because ultimately that's the best
source but let's start with biotin this
is a B vitamin A lot of people take
biotin and it does help the thickness of
your hair it helps your nails it helps
your skin but why do you need to take
biotin are we deficient in biotin biotin
can come from the diet but it can also
come from your own gut microbiome your
good bacteria make Biotin and one side
effect of
antibiotics is a problem with your hair
and that's because certain microbes are
no longer there or they're in smaller
amounts and they're just not making
enough biotin there's a huge connection
between some alteration in your gut and
problems with your hair because of a
biotin def efficiency this is why people
that start taking biotin might see a
change but then when they stop taking
biotin the hair problem comes right back
a couple other reasons why people might
be deficient in biotin is that they're
they eat raw eggs there's a certain
chemical in the egg that if you don't
cook it can combined with biotin lock it
up and prevent the absorption if you
cook the whites of the egg okay not the
yolk you don't have to worry about it
you're not going to become deficient in
biotin alcohol is another reason why
people are deficient in biotin alcohol
messes with your liver it all also
messes with the absorption of biotin
what are the best sources of biotin
liver egg yolks here you have this great
biotin that's in the yolk that won't be
absorbed because of some other chemical
in the white of the egg so this is why
you need to cook your eggs but just make
sure the yolk is a bit runny nutritional
yeast has Biotin and salmon has biotin
another little side note is that if
you're magnesium deficient which a lot
of people are that could be the reason
why you're not absorbing biotin I've
done a ton of videos on magnesium very
very important also zinc is a helper to
biotin as well and so is copper let's
move over to vitamin A I'm talking about
the active form of vitamin A called
retinol which is only in animal products
of course the best source of vitamin A
is in liver and egg yolks but you can
also get it in shellfish and civer oil
what's so important about vitamin A in
relationship to your hair vitamin A
helps control sebum and makes your hair
very very sh let's go to omega-3 fatty
acids you have omega-3 fatty acids and
then you have omega-6 fatty acids so
when people are consuming a lot of seed
oils corn oil vegetable oil those oils
are very very bad for a lot of problems
in your body including your hair so both
the omega-3 and omega-6 kind of compete
so what we want to do is we want to
eliminate the omega-6 fats and increase
omega3 fatty acids because omega-3 is so
important in making the hair thick in
making your hair shiny and you can can
get omega-3 fatty acids from fish oils
but if you get it from cod liver oil you
also get some additional benefits
vitamin A also vitamin D let's move on
to this right here what is this L ruteri
thing well stands for lactobacillus
ruide this is a microb and there's a lot
of research on this microb this microb
is missing in 96% of the population
because we've all had antibiotics in our
past and El ride does a lot for our B
but one of the things that it does very
specifically is it increases sebum that
oil that helps the hair become very very
shiny and it also stimulates hair growth
there's a lot to talk about this microb
I'm going to put a video down below if
you haven't seen a video on this you
should watch it it's something that's
fascinating now I want to get to this
really important topic of copper copper
does a lot it's involved in a lot of
different enzymes this is an
enzyme that's using copper to help
regulate iron preventing the
accumulation of iron in your tissues
iron is really important in hair growth
because it helps oxygen feed the roots
of the hair it helps the growth of the
hair it helps your hair become thicker
and it helps with the collagen formation
what I didn't know back then that I now
know is that iron is controlled by
copper if you fix your copper situation
you can actually fix your iron situation
but it's not necessarily to take another
copper supplement because you need to
understand how you became deficient in
Copper in the first place and one of the
ways that we're deficient in Copper is
that a lot of farmers use NPK nitrogen
phosphorus and pottassium
fertilizers when you use a lot of
nitrogen you get a lot of growth of
grass and other vegetation but at the
same time you're creating micronutrient
deficiencies especially copper if the
grass and vegetation are deficient in
Copper the animals will become deficient
in Copper there's a fascinating book
right here called soil grass and cancer
very thick book it's actually a very
expensive book it was like $250 but I
want to just give you a very quick
summary copper deficiency caused by
nitrogen fertilizers they're talking
about the details of how many farmers
use this fertilizer for the grass of
grazing animals but also to make the hay
that they feed the animals in the winter
and they're showing statistics on trace
minerals and coppers tank down to zero
but what's really interesting in the
book it talks about how that shows up in
sheep in cattle as far as their hair the
hair on cows becomes very very dull it
loses its luster it loses its shine if
this is happening with sheep and cows
you know is it possible going to happen
to our bodies the answer is yes so NPK
is one of the causes of a deficiency of
copper also when we consume too much
iron all the wheat products and grain
products are fortified with iron and
taking too much iron locks up your
copper as well we lose like .5 Mill M to
1 milligram a day yet the rdas or the
recommended iron per day is like 8 to 18
milligram so there's a big problem with
iron vitamin A and copper work together
they need each other to work you go on a
lowfat diet you end up with a low
retinol or vitamin A situation and
that's going to affect copper as well I
fructose corn syrup depletes copper if
you're consuming a lot of junk food this
could be why you have a problem if
you're taking a lot of zinc for a long
period of time that can deplete copper
so I always recommend taking your zinc
in a blend of other trace minerals and
also if you're taking magnesium I'd
recommend taking it in a form as
magnesium glycinate I know I gave you a
lot of information I'm going to
summarize it right now you want to start
taking Probiotic foods hefer sauerkraut
kimchi because you want to start
building up your gut microbiome number
two if you like liver start consuming
liver in your diet liver has copper egg
yolks good source of Biotin and vitamin
A and of course cod liver oil for your
omega-3 fatty acids I personally like
cod liver in cans that will give you the
omega-3 fatty acids the vitamin D the
vitamin A and there's some copper in
there as well because it's a liver and
that's where a lot of nutrition is
concentrated number five organic foods
why because glyphosate in the Roundup
Ready is very very damaging and it
creates deficiency in the soil and also
in your body if you are consuming it now
you might say well I only eat non-GMO
food well did you know that wheat is
sprayed with this glyphosate as
something to dry it out if you eat
organic you're not going to get this
glyphosate and then trace minerals are
really important to get copper to get
zinc to get everything in the right
ratios and if you haven't seen my video
on this one right here I put it up here
check it out
