hey guys dr. Burke here I have a
question off my website someone wants to
know why during menopause is she losing
her butt and her belly's getting bigger
okay
so I'm going to show you what that's all
about turn to the adrenal chapter okay
alright so this is in Chapter five
and here's what happens during menopause
the adrenal glands have to back up the
over in fact they take over they make
the same hormones as the ovaries so when
the ovaries go in retirement the
adrenals have to then take over if the
adrenals are stressed out okay what will
happens is you'll have an excessive
amount of are doing hormones that you
normally shouldn't have and that
excessive adrenal hormones during
menopause literally destroys proteins
now what it's doing it's robbing it's
stealing protein from two main muscle
groups one is the gluteus maximus and
that's you're behind your butt and it's
also your quadricep that's the thigh
muscle so it's stripping off muscles
protein from your butt and your thighs
okay it's converting it to sugar which
then is converted to fat primarily
around the middle section okay now you
probably have seen this in women after
menopause they get this huge trunk this
midsection with two little stick legs
when before menopause they had a nice
little curve and now they lost your butt
the butt has turned into the belly and
that has to do with the adrenal hormone
okay so what happens if your adrenal
glands get bad is your your butt turns
in your belly okay that's really what
happens and that's why the legs get
really really thin they look like
they're really lean but they're really
atrophy they're weaker and they get a
little flabby sometimes as well okay so
what what you need to do is not
necessarily eat a lot of protein that's
not going to work we have to do is fix
the adrenal it's not a little thing and
so it's a big thing and it requires a
lot of different things from changing
the diet taking the right nutrition
doing the right exercise
sleeping all those things which I
discuss in the book it's not just taking
one pill so I just want to answer that
question
and kind of guide you on if you have
that problem where you need to start
doing your research and focus is on the
adrenal okay I'll see in the next video
