I want to share some information that
every person who had their gallbladder
removed should know about unfortunately
they're not told this information now
maybe you have a gallbladder problem
let's say gall stones and you're
considering getting surgery I also want
to cover some data about that and I will
cover all the complications that can
happen once they remove the gallbladder
and then what you can do about it
naturally but you can live a long life
and be perfectly healthy without a
gallbladder okay but 40%
of the people have their gallbladder
removed end up having persisting
complications and pain and symptoms for
at least a year sometimes a lot longer
either constipation or diarrhea anal
leakage and you might even feel like a
full sensation underneath your right rib
cage that could refer to the right
shoulder or you might have something
called Colin sign which is the um
discomfort on the tip of your scapula on
the right side so if you reach your hand
back there it's like you might feel so
some weird thing going on now let's say
you have gallstones and they're
recommending getting surgery well I'm
going to show you some other things that
you might want to look at but there's
also the option of what's called
lithotripsy which is using sound waves
to break up those stones versus doing a
surgery to remove the gallbladder if
anyone tells you that the gallbladder is
an extra organ that is not needed they
are lying to you because we need the
gallbladder has a very important
function so the gallbladder is an
extension of the liver so every time you
eat your gallbladder contracts and it
releases this super concentrated uh
fluid called bile that empties into the
small intestine and so the gallbladder
is just a sack to hold and concentrate
the bile well what bile does is it
starts to break
down the fats into smaller little bits
like
detergent so it's kind of like
dissolving the
grease okay I'm just going to break it
down into smaller little pieces until we
have these tiny little you know this is
basically the end product of bile salts
right here so now the pancreas can come
in there and do the rest of the work it
releases an enzyme to help you dissolve
fats called lipase and it'll take these
little small little part particles and
break them down further because now
there's more surface area for that
enzyme to attack to dissolve so then you
have the benefit of certain things in
fats like fat salable vitamins vitamin A
vitamin D vitamin E vitamin K1 vitamin
K2 the essential fatty acids omega-3
omega-6 without bile you will not be
able to extract the fat nutrients from
the fat that you eat so bile is really
important and it's the bile that also
helps you get rid of excess cholesterol
bile has some other purposes too bile
stimulates the bile flow so in other
words if you don't have enough bile okay
bile salts what'll happen is things will
kind of they won't move that well
through the Ducks because you see
there's a condition which is called bios
sludge which is basically a deficiency
of biome that you get this um kind of
the stagnant flow of bile into through
the Bodo and if we take a look at what
is a gall stone it's basically a super
concentrated cholesterol Stone and the
reason why it turned into a cholesterol
Stone that's super concentrated is
because you didn't have enough bile to
keep it loose and this is why one of the
remedies for dissolving a stone is to
take bile salts after you eat if you're
low in bile salts guess what your liver
is going to do it's going to make more
bile and make more cholesterol 75% of
all the cholesterol in your body
actually is made by your own body it's
not all diet only 25% is diet so uh this
is really important to know if you have
a cholesterol problem it could just be a
gallbladder issue or a liver problem
because you're not making enough bile
now bile is also made by your microbes
and so that's called secondary bile this
bile thing is really important bile
salts also help uh get rid of um
microbes in the small intestine so in
other words we don't want a lot of
microbes in the small intestine so the
bile that's dumped into the small
intestine kind of clears out the
microbes in the small intestine and then
one once the bile gets to the last part
of the small intestine it gets
reabsorbed and gets recycled so I want
to talk about what creates a bod
deficiency estrogen is one that would
include birth control pills being
pregnant you know any type of estrogen
can do it and this is probably why women
have more gall stones than men which is
related to stress but also prazone the
medication prazone could also set you up
for this this is why diabetics have a
higher um risk of getting golf stones
and people that have higher carbohydrate
diets also are at more risk of getting
gall stones if someone is overweight
they could actually be at risk because
people that overweight have higher
amounts of fasting insulin anyone with
liver disease either a fatty liver
curosis or hepatitis why because the
very cells that make bile are in your
liver being on a low-fat diet can set
you up for a problem with GF Stones too
why because take a while guess what
triggers the release of Bio fat in the
diet also if you're taking ppis okay and
acids why because part of the digestive
process involves hydrochloric acid and
if you don't have enough hydrochloric
acid then there's going to be an
alteration in PH in your small intestine
there's going to be a lack of stimulus
of the release of the gallbladder also
if you're low on folate
magnesium vitamin C and even calcium can
all set you up for a golf Stone if
you're low in
melatonin you can be at risk
significantly of getting a gulf Stone
now what is this melatonin connection
melatonin is used in the mitochondria
the little cells in the bod ducts
actually make melatonin and melatonin
can act as an antioxidant to protect the
lining of the bod ducts from develop
Ving
inflammation and
developing fibrosis within the bile
ducts let's say for example you had to
gallbladder removed and now you have
problems okay you have symptoms there's
a couple things that I would highly
recommend do some gentle ACU pressure
not on the SCAR or not over the
gallbladder but on the opposite mere
image side which is over your pancreas
so I'm going to stand up and show you
right here so this is where the
gallbladder is it's underneath the right
rib cage right through in here okay it's
about an inch off the midline right
through in here okay so what You' do is
you would work on the mirror image side
on the opposite side and just press deep
inside here so what's going to happen
it's actually going to stimulate the
pancreas to work better to help in your
digestive flows because the problem is
that now that you don't have a
gallbladder and you may be deficient in
biome
the other organs have to take up the
slack and have to work harder and the
pancreas definitely is the organ that's
going to have to kick in there and
produce more enzymes to do the work of
what the gallbladder or bile should be
doing you'll find when you press into
that left side it's going to be very
tender just go at your own pace and then
keep working on it like maybe two
minutes twice a day and you're going to
fine you're going to have better
digestion less pain where the
gallbladder was you'll have more
drainage also your stool can tell you a
lot about what's going on with your bile
if the stool is gray or pale or white
colored then chances are you need bile
if the stool floats that means there's
fat in it because you didn't break it
down that could mean you need more bile
The Simple Solution is just to take some
uh bile salts after you eat you see they
removed the gallbladder but they didn't
really fix the real problem which is the
the the
concentrated mixture of cholesterol
versus the bile let's say for example
you had your gallbladder out and now you
have diarrhea okay in this
situation it's the opposite of
constipation you don't want to take bile
salts why because taking more BOS salts
is going to loosen up your stool even
more and give you more diarrhea there's
a certain medication that you have to
get with your doctor to get that kind of
slows down the release of bio and the
other thing is let's say you start
taking bio salts and oh wow that really
handled my constipation but then all of
a sudden you got diarrhea well that
could mean that you just back off and
take a lot less so you really want to
evaluate the symptoms the bow movements
and the stool as to how much bile if any
you need I mentioned bio sludge right
which is basically a thickened uh
material of cholesterol
and we're it's not developed into a
stone yet but it's on its way uh there's
a great remedy for that called Tut cut
that is a remedy that should be taken on
an empty stomach because you don't
necessarily want that to help you to
digest you want that to like I said
before increase the flow of bile through
these bile ducts anytime you take bile
and things get
worse you don't feel right it doesn't
help you then what that means is you
don't need B you need more hydrochloric
acid in the stomach and I would take
Bane hydrochloride okay you can get them
in little pills now you might say well
wow I just wasted money buying the bile
salts well I mean you could spend a lot
of money on a functional gallbladder
test and a certain test to put a scope
down your esophagus to measure the pH of
your acid in your stomach I think
spending a little money on a couple
different remedies to see what helps you
might be a little bit cheaper now
another thing that um I think would be
very beneficial is to increase your
melatonin in your body one way to do
that is just to get it a good night's
sleep and make sure it's dark in the
room before you go to sleep but you can
also expose yourself to infrared by
going outside more from the Sun you get
infrared or candles around at night or a
fireplace or a campfire all gives you
this infrared which will increase
melatonin and then another remedy that
can help increase the production of bile
from the liver is milk thistle also
beets can help dandelion greens is
another one that can help artichoke is
something that can help increase B
production and as far as a diet in
general the macros should be low carb
moderate fat not low fat and moderate
protein and have a salad each day now
since you're on the topic of Bio salts I
have a very interesting video on TKA
that I think you will really like so I
put that up right here check it
out
