one of the biggest problems in
healthcare is the lack of evaluation so
evaluation is finding the root cause of
something it's investigating to find the
true thing that caused something so I'm
going to take in this video Just One
symptom and pull the string and show you
what I do because every time you treat a
symptom you camouflage the symptom and
you perpetuate the problem all right
let's just take fatigue for example
we're going to take that as a symptom or
a clue and go deeper now the first thing
I do is I find out when did it start and
then what happened just before you start
getting tired to get a clue to find out
what's causing it um so there's two main
situations with sleeping I'm sorry with
fatigue number one is you're not
sleeping and you're tired or you are
sleeping but you're still tired so I
guess one of the biggest causes of
fatigue is you're not sleeping but but
that's a symptom again of something else
so we don't want to treat it we don't
want to treat this with 5our energy
drink or treat this with a sleeping pill
we want to find out what's really behind
it so I'm going to show you some of the
potential causes of not sleeping number
one it could be stress it could be your
adrenals are burnt out and you're stuck
in stress because you've been pushing
pushing pushing it could be that you
stopped smoking 20 years ago and you
were so dependent on the nicotine that
the stopping of smoking created stress
in the heart because
nicotine are artificially opened up the
coronary artery to the heart and then
you actually relaxed and you actually
can breathe better so when you smoke for
many years and you stop you could
actually have a problem with your heart
being tired because it's has never
adapted so I have a lot of people that
when they stop smoking after that they
were just stuck in stress and they were
tired and they couldn't sleep because of
that one
point okay so it could be a physical
reason maybe you have pain in your back
maybe you have a pain in your neck and
you can't get comfortable what if it's a
high flash that could be it too or maybe
it's your sinuses that's called Sleep
Apnea right and they La label and then
they treat it but what causes the sinus
let's go a little deeper with sinus what
causes sinus
well what causes the thicken mucous
membranes could be a lack of vitamin A
right we could have lack of vitamin A
but it could be you don't have enough
bile from your gallbladder to digest the
vitamin A and that's why you're not
absorbing it from the food that you're
eating
and by the way kale Shake is high in
vitamin A and that's why it helps the
sinosis or it could be the adrenals are
so stressed that um that high level of
cortisol could cause atrophy of certain
nerves in the back of the neck that go
to the mucus membranes and swell swell
up to sinuses so a lot of people with
adrenal problems end up with sinus
problems because the treatment for
sinuses are a lot of times steroids
because steroids are adrenal hormones so
that's another little causation it could
be allergies but again what causes
allergies a weak adrenal so we're just
trying to pull a string it could be a
nutritional Factor it could be low
vitamin could be low um potassium all
right because maybe your diet's not high
enough in pottassium because you're not
eating enough vegetables or it could be
too much sugar that's pulling out the
potassium so we got to look at both
angles could be lack of calcium because
maybe you're eating too much junk food
and you're not able to pull it because
junk Foods deete depletes calcium and B
vitam so a lot of breads pasta cereal
crackers biscuits and waffles and
pancakes can deplete the B vitamins that
are supposed to be retained in the body
and ending up with a low Vitamin B and
then what happens is that you basically
you have nightmares and you can't sleep
so B vitamins help you sleep could be
junk food it could be alcohol you know
these are just factors that I'm always
looking at it could be environmental
where your bed is just not flat enough
and it kind of sags and you need a new
bed or it could be noise because your
husband snores or what about your dog do
you sleep with your dog some patients
sleep with their dog I'm like that's not
going to work because the dog's
fidgeting all night long or maybe you
work third shift okay another causation
or maybe you're only getting four hours
of sleep so these are things that we
have to pull a string and find out
what's behind it okay but let's say for
example you are sleeping and you're
still tired that could be a thyroid
problem why we got to find out why it
could be high estrogen levels be coming
from a period a fibroid maybe you eating
too much soy in your diet or you just
got pregnant and you spiked the estrogen
and then the thyroid became a problem
and then you couldn't sleep so these are
things that you want to dig deeper it
could also be a liver did you realize
that your thyroid is dependent on the
liver and it converts the thyroid
hormones through the gallbladder so
without a good liver or a good
gallbladder if you had it removed you
can't convert those thyroid hormones
there there thereby creating a fatigue
in your body so these are things that
are deeper than the superficial or it
could be a virus that comes out of
remission so anytime the immune system
goes down because of stress you know a
loss of a loved one boom immune system
goes down and you get sick old viruses
can come outter Mission and it could
make you tired uh I have people that are
in chronic uh like mono um which is
epsteam bar virus and they're always
tired because of because of the low
adrenal because they're in a stressful
environment I've also had people tired
because they had an old head injury and
ever since that injury they've been
tired in their head okay it could be
also the our light sleeper because the
adrenals are so stressed out your body
can't get into the lower levels and
can't relax all right these are all
deeper levels so number One never
accept um a symptom as being a problem
okay differentiate symptoms from
problems cause and effect and always ask
why and that way you can really get to
the bottom of it I hope this helped I'll
see you in the next
video
