hi guys I had another question is keto
okay for kids to do okay now if you
think about it the most popular diet for
epilepsy for children is the ketogenic
diet because it really is effective and
the problem though I see with that diet
is they did a lot of liquid fat that you
would drink all this oil I don't
recommend that the type of ketogenic
diet that I recommend is very
nutrient-dense it's with lots of
vegetables okay so the essence of keto
really is low carb okay low carb now an
average child that's between one and
three years old has 12 teaspoons of
sugar alright that's a problem an
average four to six year old has 21
teaspoons of sugar so keto is very very
healthy because our bodies were not
designed to run on that much sugar it's
going to set them up for blood sugar
problems I mean that was me growing up I
ate tons of sugar I probably I would
just raid the cupboards with sugar I
mean I would constantly be eating sugar
so keto is extremely healthy if you do
it correctly but you need a lot of
vegetables now kids like sweets
especially if you start them out like
that so you're gonna have to make little
alternative healthy snacks pleasure
foods like they're called keto bombs
I'll put some links down below recipes
with alternative types of sugars that
kids will love and if you combine that
with a minute fasting and have the these
healthy desserts at the end of the meal
not with a snack and just have three
meals a day I think it's going to be
really healthy for your child the
problem is starting kids out on an
unhealthy sugar diet it's hard to change
especially if they're teenagers but you
have to do different things like bribing
them and giving them things like I'm
just kidding by the way giving them
things like alternative sweeteners like
keto bombs that are like little cookies
that have no sugar but they're sweet
they won't know the difference
so I would start to use that so it is
something that's healthy and natural and
I highly recommend it thanks for
watching if you want to find out more
about your body type click the link
below and take the quiz
