hey guys I just wanted to thank you for
all your amazing suggestions on future
videos so I'm reading all of these
suggestions and I have them on the list
to create videos and here's one question
that someone wanted to know about and so
I'm going to do is just do a quick video
on it they wanted to know is molasses
and honey and agave nectar okay on a
ketogenic plan alright well the answer
is no but let's talk about why
blackstrap molasses is really the waste
product from sugar cane but what's
really cool about it it has massive
amounts of concentrated nutrition the
problem is it's too high in sugar and
sometimes when you do research on any of
these it will say they were low glycemic
you know no they're not okay they're
they're just gonna turn in the sugar
pretty fast so it's gonna spike your
insulin but here's the thing blackstrap
molasses is very high in potassium
manganese copper iron calcium magnesium
phosphorus and the B vitamins so what
you could do with it
is you take a tablespoon and then take a
tablespoon of coconut oil mix it
together and use it as a facial mask
it's really good for your skin okay
leave it on for 20 minutes wash it off
of course when you're put it on your
face and walking around town just don't
mention my name but it really will help
your skin so now honey now I've done
videos and honey before on a certain
type of honey called the Tupelo Honey
which is a lower glycemic index but for
what you're trying to achieve it's not
acceptable because it will bump you out
of ketosis
agava is the worst because 90% of agave
nectar is fructose and you're just
turning this fructose right into fat
like that so it's not good for the liver
it's not good for your cells to avoid it
so thanks for the idea for this video
and stay tuned for more videos on your
suggestions
if you're enjoying this information and
getting something out of it please give
me an unbiased Google review I put a
link down below thanks
