hi guys in this video I want to analyze
someone's food log okay her name is
Diane and we want to compare it to
healthy ketosis and intermittent fasting
and give some recommendations so we know
that she's 5 6 235 pounds in 63 years
young okay so we know that in the
morning she does bulletproof coffee then
she does a quest bar and doesn't really
tell me when this is I'm guessing this
is probably in the morning okay and then
a chicken Caesar salad for lunch and
then went for dinner
the first one is going to be between two
and three o'clock in the afternoon and
then the last one is 9:00 to 10:00 which
is totally fine because if she were to
go all the way and actually not well
we'll cover this in a second but I like
the idea of eating at 2:00 to 3:00 and
also the second meal at 9:00 to 10:00
that gives enough time in between and
beforehand to really make this work
however we're going to get into a couple
of details here and then after dinner
she'll have blueberries and a handful of
macadamia nuts okay a couple medications
which I'm not going to analyze but I
just just to make note there for
probably to prevent a clot because she's
obviously she has high blood pressure so
if she's taking two medications for
blood pressure and then one for
depression or anxiety I'm not sure which
one okay so these may have side effects
I don't know
mainly if they were gonna have side
effects it could be something like I
know with blood pressure medication it's
usually insulin resistance okay I don't
know about this one but it'd be good to
analyze that but as Diane does this for
a period of time her mood should elevate
okay especially when she does in a
minute fasting and possibly get with her
doctor to see if she needs this anymore
also as she improves and gets healthy
the need for these will go down as well
but that's between her and her doctor
she's taking some vitamins true vision
which I couldn't find what kind of
vitamins they are I'm not sure why she's
taking him and I don't know the quality
so I can't really comment on that
d3 she's taking that okay so the first
thing I noticed that she's
trying to lose weight her she is seeing
inches lost okay but she's not checking
herself on the scale which is fine right
now
but if she wanted to speed things up
which I think she wants to these are
some things that I would I would change
okay if someone is this tall and has
this much weight they obviously want to
lose weight and the extra fat in this
right here is going to slow them down
because the body's gonna burn that now
it's not going to actually alter her
ketosis but it's just gonna give her
ketones coming from the fat in this and
not the fat on her body so I would do
bulletproof coffee without the oils and
so it's not even a bulletproof coffee
it's basically just coffee with a little
bit of cream that's all I would do
that's number one number two the quest
bar is gonna act like a meal so she's
really doing three meals even though
it's low sugars it has protein in there
the problem I have with quest bars is it
has corn fiber and if I'm not mistaken
that corn is not GML I'm not a hundred
percent but I would check but if it's it
is GMO you don't want to do corn okay so
they have a corn fiber in there and I
know that fiber could also create
bloating and digestive issues I'm almost
positive it has inulin but again I don't
know for sure but I know at one point it
did but the point is that this is
basically going to spike insulin because
it's a meal okay so I would not do this
okay
and I would cut the fat out of this
right here so you just do coffee and you
go all the way to this mill right here
now if you needed a transition thing
maybe a kale shake would work out great
take kale and put some stevia in there
make a little bit sweeter and blend it
up and drink that as a little shank
maybe mid-morning that will give you a
lot of potassium because look at as we
get down through here there's just not
enough high-quality greens because the
chicken caesar salad that you have is
more of a prepared in a
egg salad and the quality of greens is
very low so you really want to make this
yourself because it's either gonna be
with romaine lettuce or iceberg lettuce
I'm not sure which one it's hard to tell
in the pictures but you want to go with
high quality greens and there's just not
enough of that so if you were to make
your own with a high quality green
awesome here's the other problem I don't
know about the chicken in this chicken
Caesar salad if it's commercial it's not
if it's not organic chances are it's
going to have antibiotics and
antibiotics actually will make you fat
okay
in fact 80% of all the antibiotics sold
in America are sold to animals
especially a lot to chickens so these
chickens can grow fast and antibiotics
and it's going to affect you as well
they also add compounds that have
arsenic in 70% of all the chickens
especially if they're commercial and
arsenic also can increase growth as well
and you just do not want to have arsenic
okay and your diet it's not a good
mineral so Diane we want to look at not
just what you eat but the quality of
what you eat
thus healthy ketosis and not just
meaning getting your nutrients meaning
higher-quality food on a ketogenic diet
why because it's not just about getting
your nutrients it's about eliminating
some of the toxins and other things that
are in our food because you're doing the
same thing for lunch and dinner so I
think what I would do if I were you is I
would make your own a chicken Caesar
salad with better ingredients keep it in
your fridge and go ahead and consume you
know your lunch and your dinner now as
far as the blueberries go and this is a
minor point but if we want to speed
things up a little bit more what I would
do is I probably would not do any
blueberries I would just double the
macadamia nuts so that way we we can add
a little bit more fat okay which is
gonna allow you to go all the way over
here a lot easier so you can actually
survive until this meal right here so if
the if you have a need to have a quest
bar late morning
what you do is you add more fat at that
last meal okay so you keep eating more
and more fat to the point where you're
more and more satisfied and you can go
longer so you have your coffee
you have your two meals you have your
intermittent fasting between that'll be
awesome a couple things to make things
even better is you may want to enhance
your diet with nutritional yeast you can
get them as tablets that will give you
the B vitamins that will greatly
actually improve your mood and then add
a good high-quality electrolyte powder
with more potassium which will
automatically help you lower your blood
pressure so you and your doctor can make
some adjustments possibly okay so that's
my analysis for Diane and thanks for
watching
hey before you go I'm gonna create some
new videos on food evaluation okay so if
you'd like to participate I can't
promise that you'll be the person I'll
choose so here's what you gonna do
you're gonna take a picture of what
you're eating a close-up okay of one day
how frequent you're eating like as an
intermittent fasting is it one meal two
meals and anything else that you're
drinking or supplements and go ahead and
add your height weight in age and any
major body problems that you're having
and what I'm going to do is I'm going to
analyze that to see what you're doing
correct and what you need to improve all
right so go ahead and click the link
down below upload your information and
again I can't promise that I'm going to
pick you but I'm going to pick several
people and I'll do the evaluations and
I'll post these as YouTube videos all
right
talk to you later
