[Music]
awesome hey guys welcome we have a great
special guest today Tristan is here he's
a famous YouTube guy he basically I kind
of think he's off the grid but he's
really not to a full degree so I guess
you man I know you're a high tech it's
it's yeah I guess you know what I admire
about you you basically are doing what
you really want to do you just a lot of
people want to just move to someplace
where it's out of the you know out of
the society and like you just basically
did it with your family and you're
you're living off the land it seems like
so that's pretty pretty admire well
thanks man I really appreciate it you
know I mean we don't we don't
necessarily when I hear we look living
off the land I I would of course I'll go
to kind of an extreme of like what it's
actually like to live completely off of
you know your own land it's something I
think is a beautiful idea but in the
modern world it's kind of almost
impossible to do you know I mean without
proper training we haven't been trained
generationally to even know shoot how to
feed ourselves by going to the grocery
store right we don't even understand
what to buy in the grocery store
nonetheless how to completely harvest
our own land so I think it'd be so cool
to live off of our own land I think one
day well I just saw I just I was looking
at some of your videos and it looked
like you have some land looks like you
have some cows looks like you so I just
assume that you eat those cows yes well
did you have cows we haven't eaten any
of our own cows at this point
okay plan on eating most of these cows
some of these cows we're ready to be
almost now so yeah so we do we got a
bunch of chickens and we've got a dog
that eats more of our chickens than we
do because we get a lot of eggs but I
actually find when you eat a lot of meat
when you eat you know you're doing like
a ketogenic diet or something you're
gonna have like fatty cuts of meat and
so if you get t-bones regularly which
our daughter loves t-bone steaks so get
those t-bones and we feed them to the
chickens we find that their egg
production has almost doubled so I think
we've probably got like a 3540 percent
increase in egg production just from
giving them more bones and leftover
scraps I really like to eat marrow as
well so oh I love marrow
I love Meryl it's just hard to get
enough of it you know you like get this
and you get this little scoop of marrow
it doesn't really add up yeah okay what
are you gotta get the whole boho what's
it so nice you get the whole bone you
know when you live somewhere where
you're close to a food source or if
you've got you know everybody no matter
where you live even if you live in a
city there's going to be I mean even if
you check your local Craigslist you
might be able to find providers who've
got you know the organic farms nearby
about grass-fed animals and you can get
a whole femur bone and if you get that
whole femur bone you don't have to get
it cut up if you got like a saw at your
house got a bandsaw you can think you
cut that femur bone however you want I
like to use an axe myself in the
backyard I just like to chop it down
what's up now do these chickens they
can't eat bone right I mean like how do
they could they break the bone up or do
you have to crush them you know what
they just pick it they pick all the
little bits out of it that you don't get
all the collagen
I'd say the entire collagen network it's
all tied into the bone I mean we think
of our of our body almost I think it's
it's funny I mean you as a chiropractor
you probably see this a lot when you're
working with other chiropractors I know
you actually trained other doctors but I
mean we tend to look at the body as like
well you have the bone and that's
separate from the muscle and then you
have the blood vessels but when you
actually look at the the matrix of your
body these you're looking at systems
within systems within systems of
magnetic fluids electrified moving
through your blood which is you know
this paramagnetic substance filled with
iron and it's constantly interacting
with the mitochondria in your body and
pumping through this giant magnet of
your heart and this all this whole
matrix of fluids and metals and salts
and I mean there's just so much going on
electricity it's not just like you know
the bone and then the collagen and you
just peel the collagen off it's this
stuff is all intertwined and when you
actually look at a bone after you cook
it you know you make a steak and it's
got that little marrow a bone in the
middle you see it opens up all these
holes and these juices seep out of it so
I mean there's there's so much going on
there when you look at like protein I'm
really big on you know protein coming
from something that has eyes or a shell
and you know not necessarily a powder
not you know whey protein powder while
that might have some benefits for some
people in certain contexts
I just don't think that that's uh that's
not food I don't
that is food now for properties that you
get from the whole food that you don't
get from these other totally I mean for
dinner I had the you I order us wellness
meats they ship and it's like total
grass-fed and and the soil is amazing
and the farmers are incredible so I have
the steak it's a fifty-five percent fat
like it's the most fat so I'm actually
could I cooked the steak and man I just
feel so good when I consume that I'll
show you I actually have another thing
that I I don't I order also liverwurst
but this is kind of I don't know if
you've ever seen this before I don't
have can you pronounce it I would say oh
my god yes this has I mean it's
grass-fed liver beef onion white pepper
and salt the perfect food right there
look at what you would make I mean when
I do you know I mean we don't eat all I
wish everything we ate was our own we're
our own animals that would be so nice
but it's cool you live in a place or
when you've worked with companies like
us wellness meats or you know you
butcher box or something like that when
you know like this is coming from a
really good source you know that the
whole animal is healthy and very edible
you know making sausage or something
like that I mean you you you've got so
much of the animal that is very
affordable well not a lot of people
really eat nowadays and it kind of gets
overlooked and it can be way cheaper
than normal cuts oh I bet that that's
pretty affordable that was it Browns
Friday yeah it's pretty full cuz you
don't really I don't need a lie mean I
eat like a chunk of it each day and it's
like it's just like a superfood because
you have you actually have more
nutrients than anything on the planet in
the organ meats you know so that's one
of the things I want to talk to you
about you you I think you said you do a
carnivore diet right I do a primarily
carnivorous diet now I think that term
it's kind of a C word right now I mean I
don't even know what the carnivore diet
is right a lot of people say there's
this diet that dad's a keto diet whereas
you know you I know there's a million
different ways we can spew a ketogenic
diet right I do keep in a diet that
basically comes all from the animal
kingdom right now and that's not because
I
believe plants are bad so now because I
think that we should all eat this way I
just find myself gravitating towards
these foods and I like to experiment all
the time and I'm kind of going through a
phase where I'm craving just foods like
marrow heart liver fatty cuts of meat
and that's basically what I build my
diet around right now and I think other
things that I would be consuming would I
mean it's all peripheral you know I like
chocolate I think 100 percent chocolates
great food some people are sensitive to
oxalates they're highly sensitive dog
slices they don't do well with chocolate
I can eat it but I don't know I just I
do find that I function really well on a
diet that's very very low in fiber which
I would have never thought that I would
say right I used to be so big on fiber
but I do find myself gravitating towards
lower fiber diet high in animal fats
whole unrefined animal fats it's fast
timing I know people they're always
asking me well what do you think about
this I said well I think if it works for
you great do it I mean I think that when
I when I was a vegan woman in my 20s I'm
50 now 53 and I actually had the worst
digestion on the planet I mean I was
like gaseous and bloating and then one
day I had this burger and I was like my
whole stomach just stopped bloating I'm
like wow wow I mean I was like I thought
it was the fiber we needed the fiber but
actually you need I mean I think you
need some fiber but you and I don't know
maybe there's a way the microbes live
without the fiber but the point is that
when I went with more fatty meats my
digestive system did very well so I
think a lot of people have a problem
with you know beans and lentils and all
these other things that our bodies just
just produce so much gas and then they
think they have to dump all this
tremendous amounts of fiber as fiber is
the secret nutrient I mean I think it
can tear you up so I started at
consuming fatty hamburger for breakfast
I remember and I was like what laughs my
digestion second it feels great
I was just blown away so then it was
like oh my gosh I'm gonna just go for
this so I started doing fish in Mead for
breakfast and I start stopped eating all
these the so called brain
and fiber which is you know insoluble
just terrible
you know I guess the the saying goes
that your gut bacteria needs a lot of
fiber which we do know there's certain
got bacteria the feed off of fiber
certain types of got bacteria can feed
off of certain fibers there's also i'll
you know fungus and yeasts that grow in
our gut and they're not all bad they're
not all good it's about context and the
gut microbiomes fascinating now the
assumption would have been myself
included i would have assumed this you
know three four years ago
well you remove all that fiber you're
gonna get digestive issues you're gonna
have constipation you're not going to be
getting the you know the nutrition from
your food because you won't be digesting
it because you're losing gut bacteria
now i think that was definitely maybe a
little bit of oversimplification in my
mind when i look at it now i mean it's
you know we're gonna have gut bacteria
for every single macronutrient not just
fiber
we've got bacteria that are there just
to break down fats
we've got bacteria that are there to
break down proteins in our body and all
of these are all connected with our
immune systems and very intelligent ways
that have over millennia been dealing
with different dietary pathways but when
you look at every diet of every healthy
human being or you know every human
being on this planet before a hundred or
two hundred years ago the main part of
every single cultures diet that's
unavoidable are animal foods so you know
i mean whether it's in india whether
they're vegetarian and they don't iver
Emaar the population they're still
obsessively consuming milk cream and
cheese and dairy products so it's animal
husbandry animal foods in my opinion and
you're not gonna really be gaining by
removing these and i would say that that
is objectively true i guess i'm gonna
say my opinion i do believe that to be
objectively true which kind of talk
about that quite a bit on channel cuz i
I was a vegan myself for a little while
and eating a very high fiber diet not
that I'm totally against fiber but I
think we tend to look at plants so we
can be naive and looking at plant says
all of them being so deliciousness and
so great and like plants are just this
panacea of health I think what we might
be seeing and a lot of the medical
literature is what
these plant foods replacing and that's
usually well the bun on the burger you
know I mean if you replacing wheat with
fruit and vegetables like a lot of
people do and they go into a vegan diet
they're gonna feel they better so I
think if we don't want to simplify it
too much but uh the gut microbiome is a
complex thing and it does need to digest
proteins and fats as well and eating
very little fiber for me now at this
point feels very good so I I kind of do
what's right for me well what was the
thing when you were a vegan what was the
thing that said you're you made the
shift into or out of veganism out out of
veganism
okay so vegan for me was a way to get
healthy it was a way to try and use diet
to make mice make my body perform better
right I just I wanted to feel better I
wanted to be clear-headed I wanted to be
without allergies asthma chronic pain
degenerating discs I had injuries so I
started looking at diet and as you
probably know being a chiropractor I
mean you've been around this stuff for a
long time especially in the mid 2000s a
lot of people's go to alternative health
method was leaning towards plant-based
diets right it was you know people were
getting into like raw vegan which I
wasn't really too into a periodically
I'll go through appears where I'd play
around with the idea but that was you
knows it's disastrous for my gut
disastrous for my well-being and I
definitely felt better than on a
standard junk food diet but long-term I
ended up getting really really sick I
contracted some sort of a viral or
bacterial infection I think it was a
virus or I don't know whatever happened
to me I was in bed for a week and there
was a I couldn't drink water for several
days of that week I was evacuating
everything I put in my body I couldn't
hold anything down I thought I was gonna
have liver failure that was what was
coming to mind because I could feel I
was just I felt so inflamed and I felt
so deathly sick and when I was so sick I
remember actually telling my wife it was
horrific it was it was beautiful at the
time it was like
but I remember thinking back was so
terrible I remember telling her what I
might die like I feel like a dyke and it
wasn't me just telling her as a joke
like I got the flu a dying babe it was
like it was an intense experience so um
anyways I ended up getting really hungry
for Chickenfoot so sick and I don't know
why I'd never had chicken food soup
chicken foot soup in my life I just knew
that uh traditional Chinese medicine
they always used organs and they would
use the bones and they would use the
whole carcass and make soup and they
would do it for people that cold and flu
so I thought this is what I need when
they come out of this I'm so
nutritionally depleted I've been eating
quinoa and feeling guilty when I sneak
in cheese or something just because it
was this idealistic thing of all I can
live without those animal foods I can do
it other people maybe fail because
they're not eating a Whole Foods diet
I'm gonna do it all Whole Foods lentils
beans rice quinoa and a little bit of
goat cheese every now and then but it
wasn't necessary no which I was I was
fooling myself that goat cheese was
priced saving my butt every once in a
while I mean even though making b12
supplements and stuff it just for me it
didn't work so yeah first thing I had
was chicken foot soup after that was
just made the transition you know um I
have a good friend who's a podiatrist
and she does surgery on people's feet
all the time and she can always
recognize a vegan I'm like what what are
you talking about when she does surgery
smell right now I'm gonna know that the
the tissue
it looks gray the tissue is gray it's
not bright red like it's great and I'm
like what she goes oh yeah all of my
doctor friends could spot you know like
well that's interesting that's amazing
that's incredible now yeah I mean we
you're probably looking all right so a
lot of the arguments the argumentation
I'd say the main argumentation you'll
see on the internet against not eating
plants the scurvy so lack of vitamin C
scurvy what is wrong with where what
happens in it scurvy that's you know the
noticeable
you know degenerative factor is you're
not able to synthesize collagen so you
start breaking down
but what's crazy is when you actually
look at all these people that are doing
diets with no plants in them you look at
the Plains Indians over with they were
including certain plants right but you
look like so I guess maybe the Plains
Indians aren't the best argument or that
but they did eat primarily from the
Buffalo and then you have the Inuit
living off of mostly all animal foods
but of course they would have some kelp
and stuff like that so you can't use
that as an example either but when you
look at a lot of people that are doing
these diets now there's a lot of people
that are getting by on steak for there's
a few people
Charlene Anderson for instance and
Joelle Anderson they've got two kids I'm
not saying this is a good idea I'm not
saying that I know that they're healthy
because I don't know these folks but
apparently allegedly they've been doing
20 years just on steaks and they all
seem to be in phenomenal health and they
yeah they they get attacked online for
it and they've had to remove certain
blog posts because of the negativity
that comes to them but I it's funny what
we consider extreme these days right
it's like I think a lot of this stuff is
culturally induced and recent taboos
against foods like organs foods like
meat we think these foods are bad bacon
and eggs for breakfast oh my goodness
that's terrible when it's like that's
what your grandparents did and your
parents were Keeling over from cancer at
30 years old they weren't getting
Alzheimers degrees a disease like I have
apparently know that we wouldn't get an
owl's dimers disease in it disease in
neurodegeneration in their early 40s
like we're seeing today so like you know
it's there's there's a lot of different
arguments against these diets but I
think the scurvy thinks fascinating and
just going back to where your
podiatrists friend notice difference in
tissue quality that's just amazing that
when you're looking at the absence of
animal fats and of certain vitamin
cofactors like vitamin D vitamin k2
vitamin A all of these involved in the
production of your nervous system so if
you deprive a pig of vitamin A that pig
can be born blind and without eyes and
this has been experimentally done many
times and proven that their nervous
system is not properly forming without
these fat soluble vitamins so that's
just really horrifying that you'd see
things like that but I wouldn't
because my hip injury that I thought was
getting better when I was on a vegan
diet I don't think it got any better at
all now that I look back it's like the
amount of healing that I've seen and of
course it's years later and when you're
dealing with a lot of you know tissue
inflammation and scar tissue and like a
hip or something like that it does take
time to process but man the regeneration
that I noticed as soon as I came out of
that vegan paradigm was just remarkable
and quite frankly frustrating to me
because I I never was ideologically
married to it I think I just stubbornly
wanted to prove to myself that I could
do it and they'll deeper I got into it
the more I kept you know this is just
sheer will I'm detoxing
it's just detox those kind of things I
would tell myself and looking back it
was so silly and even then I knew better
but I still got so wrapped up in it I
mean once you do something like that you
almost have to people have a real hard
time being wrong so they have to
maintain that rightness despite how
wrong it is they'll keep keeping the
right because in Bali
all this stuff invalidates their whole
paradigm so people have this drive to be
right no matter what even if it makes
them unhealthy but one of the reasons I
brought you on is that I do want to add
more recipes for organ meats and stuff
and you have a amazing cookbook which
you're you're sending me and I want to
know more about it but I think the the
organ mines meats you know the problem
is like you have to prepare them you
have to make them taste good there's
ways to cook them and the amount of
nutrition I mean even like some of the
Indians they would consume the adrenal
gland not a lot of it just a little bit
of them from the caribou which is
basically the the main organ that or the
gland that has the most vitamin C I
think that's one of the things they got
a ton of vitamin C from the adrenal
glands because that's where those how so
animal going back to the scurvy thing
there's an interesting point about
vitamin C right so when you're looking
at foods like liver with just got more
vitamin A than almost any other food
that you're gonna find in the world it's
got 300 like I think for a hundred grams
it's around 360 percent of the daily
recommended value of vitamin A and
that's retinol for in vitamin A naught
beta carrots right just made a carotene
is very
different so you know you're looking at
the mineral what's in these foods and
it's very different for you're gonna
find in plant-based foods and the
vitamin C thing I think that's an
interesting point and you know without
consuming plant products will you get
scurvy so fascinating is you can't you
see with Steffensen you know about the
guys Steffensen yeah he lived like the
Inuit for a while
nice he's just cute he wants me to hold
him so I'm gonna have to hold prop I
need so Steffensen lived with the Inuit
for years and he hunted with them and he
lived among them and he was not eating
any plant foods at all during this
period he came back and the Western
science didn't believe him that he
didn't get scurvy and died they said
that's impossible without vegetables
you're gonna get scurvy and you're gonna
die and nothing bad happened to the guy
so then he was under medical observation
for I think two years it was either a
year or two years doing the same thing
eating organs fatty animal cuts and meat
and he was totally fine and if you read
you know actually the literature on and
they say much to our surprise he didn't
die so they're trying to prove this you
know that it's really interesting to me
the the the difficulty in reconciling
the scurvy idea and the not eating
plants but but it has been observed and
so many people that without eating
plants people are not getting these
vitamin C deficiencies well I would
pause it as an alternate thing that
could be happening is you're getting a
lot of these other cofactors that are
involved with the building of collagen
so you're eating when you're eating
animal foods you're eating the entire
college and major matrix of the animal
you're getting a lot of glycine prolene
which these are also precursors to
collagen synthesis so we could be
looking at multiple pathways leading to
the same destination and perhaps just
perhaps you're not gonna have to worry
about scurvy and stuff if you're getting
the right vitamins and minerals in from
the whole animal which Stefan said
observed and he also noted that if he
didn't eat a lot of fatty pieces and if
he just ate lean meat he would get sick
get diarrhea vomit and feel like crap so
start getting all the scurvy symptom
right well I mean there is actually
vitamin C in liver I mean um like the
gin as well yeah you gave me an active
form of vitamin
I mean vitamin A you got you got iron
you got b12 you got b1 b2 for folate
it's just crazy amounts yeah it's like a
lot of bullet and also coenzyme q10 yeah
so correct I'm cute it's a massive
antioxidant very powerful antioxidant
your body also mate yeah yeah I mean
there's so many nutrients that you can
survive off of I mean you're gonna
thrive you're gonna thrive so so yes I
mean foods like liver if you I think one
of the most powerful scenes and like
what a modern film is in the revenant
when Leonardo DiCaprio his character
hasn't eaten in days he's completely
beaten and busted up he's almost dying
and he finds a guy who had just killed a
buffalo and he gives him the raw liver
and just the visser allottee of that
scene and that being the first thing
then the guy looked at him in his eyes
and looked at him and you could see just
that the most human basic level that
non-verbally this guy understood was
going on and as it was portrayed in the
film it was really beautiful and you
just ate that full liver like it was
like it was his job and when you look at
any apex predators they're all going for
the fatty parts of the animal they go
for the liver the heart and they'll eat
the guts is what I don't they do that
for a reason they do not digest that
lean meat and look for the nutrients and
the lean meat that they do in foods like
marrow and liver and heart so these are
foods that are actually really really
easy to prepare it's not really hard to
make heart or liver a part of your diet
like a few times a week making something
just like some liver sauteed and butter
you know really simple recipes you
mentioned our book like we've got some
recipes for an entire section on organ
meats in our book the ketogenic edge
cookbook so we've got we call it the odd
bit section and we teach you just you
know how to make bone broth how to
prepare liver how to make heart kidney
how to prepare tongue how to make your
own tallow so I mean there's there's so
many ways that you can use the entire
animal and get really affordable pieces
of the animal and they're the most
nutritious pieces so you mentioned like
you know vitamin adek folate the amount
of b12 and liver is so absurd it's like
this is the food that people would go
for first when they were starving and
this is literally with one of the most
important human foods in the world is
liver the liver of ruminant animals
especially you know coenzyme q-10 it's a
powerful antioxidant as we age we
produce less of it so getting in foods
like liver at least you know once a week
is something that we definitely made a
big part of our lives when we first
started out on eating a higher fat diet
about five years ago my daughter was a
year old
after she experienced dental caries was
likely due to like that's why it hit me
earlier and you said the podiatrist saw
that the bones of these kids we were
doing a vegan diet before my daughter
was conceived
she got dental caries immediately when
they broke through her tom by the grace
of God we weren't doing it well she was
pregnant but we were you know I wouldn't
have done that I had known I'd known
well enough at that time to know that
not you know what the one thing I just I
just remembered when I was a kid
probably five six years old for four of
my birthday I don't know why I requested
this my half of my family is Swedish and
so that we had all these they had the
Swedish butter
I wanted butter I wanted a pound of
butter
I would eat literally just right out of
you know just eat butter I just would
add the kraid it and now I know looking
back I had every single tooth was filled
with you know amalgams and because I had
so many dental cavities I was trying to
find those fat soluble vitamins trying
to get them and Nate Lee but obviously
it was too late because I didn't stop
eating sugar dough until I was 23 years
old and what's that in when you're
eating sugar it's the white sugar
especially you're having to leach
minerals out of your body to observe and
deal with that sugar to absorb what's
the glycation I mean there's a lot going
on so I yeah man that's crazy and when
you look at you what Western a prices
book nutrition and physical degeneration
that that's an amazing book so yeah he
gets into the same thing he would have
kids where they were having behavioral
issues and showing
I guess what we would consider now
autism type disorders where you know
social issues not performing well in
school difficulty focusing and he would
always notice a nutritional component in
a degeneration of the teeth he would
give these kids foods like cod liver and
high vitamin butter oil which was just
really concentrated grass-fed butter and
they would regenerate and they become
the best students in the class
frequently so I mean this is it's a
shame that we're not looking at this
more and he even gets demonized I mean a
lot of people are well that guy you
can't trust him it's it's it's old
that's an old book and it's never been
demonstrated scientifically in
peer-reviewed studies now it's like well
who's gonna fund who's gonna fund this
study you know let's take some orphans
and let's give them some good high-fat
foods and let's turn their life around
it see you're not gonna say it's no
money in it it's a it's ridiculous that
you also do you have like old injuries
is that why you had a lot of pain from
sports yeah uh yeah no I have just for
me being an idiot I heard my hip really
bad skateboarding was involved with a
vehicle that was totally my fault and
yeah so I ran into a car which in turn
reciprocated with its gravity right into
my hip and I was going pretty fast and
yeah so I had a chronic injury there but
also I had some degenerative stuff as
well because you know you mentioned
dental cavities there looking back also
had I think six teeth filled when I was
ten and then various you know dental
issues after that scoliosis was
diagnosed in seventh grade and that
wasn't I'm pretty sure it's not a
genetic thing I don't think that my back
was I was just born with it twisted
it was postured I mean it was you know
my bones not being strong enough perhaps
who knows you know just I mean what do
we do all day and when were in school we
lean over our desks and so I think there
are big nutritional deficiencies too
that would be involved with the proper
growth of your spine and the proper
healing and that definitely got me into
looking at nutrition as a way to try to
regenerate the body and be free of pain
and you were you were pretty close to
becoming a chiropractor at one point but
so so did you do still have hip pain
yeah yeah I mean I still have a hip so
still hurts every once in a while
my left side left side is that where you
got hit yeah so I got hit you know going
sideways into the side of a car but also
I remember I was diagnosed Coley osis
before this and even before this injury
happened I would I would get knots in my
my thoracic spine and had really poor
thoracic extension and you know forward
neck all this stuff and man I'm really
definitely a big proponent or a
proponent but I just definitely been
believer and posture greatly affecting
things like digestion and general health
like I I'm uh I'm not a chiropractor so
I've got no invest no vested interest
but but people say chiropractic is whack
your chiropractors are quacks I just
laughed as a man like a chiropractors
and helped me more than any other
conventional medicine doctor that I've
ever been to in my life and I grew up
with asthma allergies you know I was
taking amoxicillin I remember the taste
of amoxicillin I loved it was pink and
it was tasted sweet and I would get it
when I got here infections and the next
time I got an ear infection I'd get more
you know I think we all deal with these
things antibiotic use low quality foods
you know even more abrasive foods once
we start trying to get healthy and we
think yeah you know I mean I mean eat a
bunch of broccoli and maybe if it's raw
it's better well it's like no Rob
broccoli is not elde food you've got to
steam that stuff and you've got to make
it edible so it's uh yeah the pain and
digestion posture all those things are
definitely linked to me well I'm gonna I
want to give you a little tip on the hip
pain because there's something uh that
it's quite magical you can get rid of
hip pain or any injury at all and it's a
very contradictory of so if you if the
car hits you on the left side right is
that word impacted you on the left hip
yep okay so yes you can do this when
we're done here and then you can tell me
how you feel but do you have a tennis
ball laying around or yeah yeah well
alright so yeah all right yes do you
ever experience pain still I've got a
jackhammer next to my desk
that's good yeah you could probably good
so you can use that ball on there and so
what you want to do and you want to when
we're done lay on the on the floor and
lay on your right side and put that ball
on the mirror image on the good hip
exactly opposing where you got hit on
the bad hip you put it on the good head
and so and what happens it's like you
want to find the epicenter of that so
it's gonna hurt like hell
in fact yeah good side when you press on
it it's gonna hurt way more than you
ever thought that it could hurt it's
like always like hypersensitive and
that's just because of the circuits so
when I treat people I never ever ever
ever work on the side of injury because
that just takes too long
this new method works like that so you
put it on the good side that no one ever
even deals with and you lay on it right
on that hip right on the mirror image
and for about two minutes and then stand
up and then see how it feels on the
other side it just puts you'll feel like
there's blood flow circulation it just
starts coming back you're like what the
house is so amazing I mean yeah you can
put pressure on one part of the body
that's low in the body and you're gonna
affect how your neck is feeling and you
you know it's it's so incredible
especially you have this yeah let's go
ahead oh I do I'm just digging out on
just thinking of what the heck's going
on there when you got electrical current
and different magnetic fields being
created by those electrical currents and
there's only so much energy in the body
so it's like I mean it's I love thinking
about what even happens kinetically hit
her in our body when those are going and
those things are happening yeah because
you have you have a loss of
communication lines internet areas of
injury so you have a high amount of
resistance so you just throw off the
entire electrical field so but the cool
thing is that that circuit is is
connected to the spinal column on the
mirror-image side so it's all one so you
can influence this side by working on
this side it works with like I was
weightlifting with sandals once okay and
I had a 45 pound dumbbell and I dropped
in my toe okay so that hurt so I
instantly started working
the opposite BAM took took all the pain
way healed real quick same thing with
the tip of my finger I closed the door
on it crushed it work on the opposite
side so injuries you always work on the
opposite and like they don't teach this
in school they don't teach it they
actually tell you to start working on
the inflammatory areas and you're on
that thing for like the next 10 years it
never gets goes yeah it's like the
deeper you dig it into that scar tissue
it's like it's just like oh yeah I'll
push it right back yes longer yeah right
that's funny and then you find yourself
walking differently and then you see
that's gonna affect all the way up your
entire spine and if you're walking weird
and you know same thing with gut issues
right you can get gut issues that are
greatly exacerbated by injuries or vice
versa
yeah the the biggest thing I see in
Pride this is probably the most common
thing in practice is gall bladder
congestion the gall bladder from
probably high insulin right the gall
bladder there's a nerve right connected
is called the phrenic that goes right up
to the right side of the neck and nearly
100% of time any time people have
right-sided headaches right shoulder
it's always the gallbladder you massage
the gall bladder the pain goes away I
mean that's so common everyone comes in
with it they're blown away again they've
been working on the shoulder for the ten
years doesn't it doesn't help so a lot
of pain is referred one yeah yeah it's
just so amazing the human body is so
incredible I think you know the way that
people look at it we look at it in
segments like it's a I don't know like
that game operation or something right
it's just that's my arm and in no way is
my arm connected to my foot yeah it's
all connected yeah yeah I I have some
book that haven't got a look at yet but
uh Thomas Myers Anatomy trains I really
want to look at that yet have you ever
seen that one he's just I'm not sure
he's like a body worker of some type or
my shirt as a chiropractor but he's got
an interesting interesting perspective
just on the holistic nature of the human
body and movement I haven't seen that I
haven't seen it but the thing is when
like I had a cast practice
and so I didn't accept insurance and so
you had you were forced to get results
because if you didn't get results people
aren't gonna come back so it kept
pushing you know more and more like I
mean to the point where these people
would come in expecting like okay I want
all my problems gone into business so
like that's kind of where my head was
wrote for many years but like when you
have the typical Rock'em Sock'em crack
on practice where you're basically
lining people up and you're just
cracking stuff it's like I think that's
where carp are just get a bad name yeah
yeah so I mean you really begin to give
me people with corrective exercises and
you know showing them how to manage
their posture and stuff throughout the
day afterwards
well what I'm bigging is really
understanding that the essence of the
injury and all the compensatory muscles
that are happening especially with ankle
stuff and nice stuff which how it throws
off the opposite hip and the shoulder
and so going through the whole thing and
stripping off all these compensations
that's like very fascinating and then
you you find out why the person can't
hold the treatment because they're they
have these muscle that's been working
twice as hard and no one ever dealt with
that because they fell on their knee
when there were seven and then that
created this over here so you're dealing
with like all these interesting ropes
that are too tight you're an accident
yeah the psychology of it all - yes
probably the huge emotional component
you'll see with people somebody used the
press is gonna have a compress I could
kya phonic posture that's gonna affect
their how their chest is other breathing
how their diaphragm moves I'm just gonna
affect their digestion yeah it's
important to get like a history of old
injuries I'm talking like falling on
your tailbone I mean I was upside down
on a swing set when I was five and fell
right on my head and compressed and
jammed my neck I mean I probably I think
what got me so interested is cuz I had
pretty much more injury than any person
that I've ever wanted to ask you you
must be I mean that no one gets into
chiropractic just cuz like oh I want to
make a bunch of money as a chiropractor
like you got to have a specific reason
Oh injuries wrestling injuries have
fractured my neck wrestling in college I
mean just snap your neck yeah and then I
kept wrestling a broken
the ankle the shoulder this I was I was
driving a bike up a hill on the cement
fast as I could go and I the chain fell
off and I landed on this elbow is
completely no Sprint in your chain yes
the chain canceled words going so hard
Oh No yeah and so it actually the told
chain it was a the bike jammed and it
just threw me right off like you always
think you can tuck and roll it happened
so fast all I could do is turn my head
and kiss the cement and it felt like
some of my tooth just like jammed up and
I'm like damn like that's gonna be a
while before I feel normal again
oh yeah that's - I just remembered this
and they hit my head pretty hard you
know maybe you know suburban fence so
maybe five foot five and a half foot
tall you know like your dad can look
over it but you got to climb up it and
yeah I was playing hide and seek running
from my friend and fell off the top of
the fence straight down on my head side
down just straight to my head you know
like forward you know right there so
I've got you know I've got like a little
I mean you just get up and you just like
somehow how did you survive learn swear
words recently so I think I said some
swear words and went to the doctor got a
couple stitches he was like now you
don't have a concussion you're fine kid
and then just moved on but who knows I
mean I'm sure that wasn't great for my
spinal cord oh your neck you're an
active I was running I was we were
playing outside in the dark running I
didn't see the clothesline it was right
on my neck and I literally almost
severed my head and I mean like I go to
school the next day and there's this
huge like red mark and I'm like why did
I do that you know so there's some film
I watched a few years ago is like this
Ridley Scott film about
drug smugglers I forget was called the
counselor do you ever watch shows a
weird movie now a lot of dialogue I
thought it was actually a good film this
maybe some people would be annoyed
whether it's very kind of pretentious
dialogue but yeah there was a thing
where they they they would strung a
piece of just metal wire across the road
to get a guy's head when he was on his
motorcycle eppard that was pretty
picturesque that I remember and that was
it
yeah that was her that was almost you
good thing you couldn't run that yes I
know
well I my feet came up I literally
couldn't breathe I'm like I just somehow
lucked out I mean I've done so many
things where it just almost could have
went this way and so but if I can you
know in one hand it was good because it
forced me to come up with techniques
that deal with pain and chronic injury
and also old injury and inflammation and
basically I have I put it all on YouTube
so people can watch and get rid of their
injuries now you get a help how many
people I mean you owe million people
pricing your videos so I mean you've got
what a blessing all these other people
that you and I can just be so dumb
sometimes idiotic there's a there's a
condition called reflex sympathetic
dystrophy have you ever heard that
no it's called simple a sympathetic
reflex well something like that
anyway this weird condition is when you
get surgery on an area and then you have
chronic pain it's so bad on some people
that they basically commit suicide it's
so bad so they it's after surgery they
they have a neuroma on the foot and then
they get taken out and now they can't
walk and it debilitated that is the
easiest thing to correct on the planet
with the and I'm talking within minutes
so I'll have people that will literally
come in with that and they'll walk out
like just without any pain so why does
that work so well because I work on the
opposite side no one does that no one
does that they do more surgery on the
area of injury and I'm like oh my god
it's like taking an open wound and just
like digging in there so so completely
sometimes what we think is gonna be good
for us
a complete opposite of a kind of contra
to ative but I actually I contacted some
of the support groups I'm like hey guys
I can I can help you and it's weird like
they're not interested I'm like what
no thanks I'm like I got my doctor I'm
like no no I can get rid of your pain
okay no no I'm good I'm like okay all
right interesting I mean I mean a guy
like you going through all those
injuries and then what was the final I
mean how did you even hear about
chiropractic and and pull the trigger to
actually go for it and ten do that well
it was ninth grade actually uh my
grandfather I never met him but he was a
chiropractor and I said well what's a
chiropractor do my mom brought me there
after some injuries from wrestling and
he said lay down and I don't know what
he's gonna do and he went and I go oh my
god I feel so good I said I said you
like what you do and he said yes I said
I want to do that so I'm gonna be a
chiropractor ninth grade so that's when
I knew so I had to go through pre-med I
went through pre-med you had pain before
ninth grade so you were in chronic pain
I went in there and 14 year old right
yeah I mean by the time I was 20 I had
my hands were arthritic arthritis down
the spine I was like messed up I was
like a basketball so that's what drove
me to this saying and then unfortunately
the way they teach you in school is not
always the most effective I had to kind
of figure it out because it didn't work
for me I mean it didn't hold you know
you get adjusted and you have to keep
coming back but I will say this if you
find a really good doc there's nothing
better than a really good adjustment
where he has the right amount of force
the right amount of just the perfect
amount of tension and bam it's just like
oh my gosh this is it's the best and my
experience too is them knowing what to
adjust right rather than just you know
if you see him you know if they're just
lining them up with crank and a mouse
but yeah I had to shop around for
chiropractors because I met a few that
were just okay I can tell you just
you're just looking at me as like
alright next guy where there's other
chiropractors you sit down you talk to
them and they look at
you can just you could see it them
engineering reverse engineering your
body as they ask you questions and you
cannot yeah it's an interesting
relationship that develops unfortunately
there's there's seminars within the car
part of community that basically call
volume seminars volume go for Vaughn I'm
talking like a thousand patients in a
week a hundred patients a day
and you know you know it's just it's
they're not taking the time it's just
Rock'em Sock'em number game just cracker
I mean it's I can crack every bone in
your body and then the conventional
medicine model right like I guess if
you're you want to be like a normal you
know the the American Medical
Association that's that seems to be like
the standard of care that I got you go
in what are your symptoms
right I mean your knee with a piece of
rubber up here put this in your mouth
for two minutes okay here's some
amoxicillin you gone you know it's just
it was just who am I even talking to
like so half of doctors don't even look
you in the face they just walk in all
soaked in and inflamed like the face is
like five flaps hanging off itself look
half-dead like what what is this I had
one doctor that I felt cared and he was
a he was a really nice guy dr. Linea
Weaver he was he looked like John Luke
Picard from from Star Trek and he was uh
it was an asthma doctor and but he still
had asthma but he was it was it was like
seven years old but he had running
trophies on his desk and he's like you
know still uses an inhaler but he would
use to asthma guy and he wanted to help
people but all you knew how to do is
have you blow into a freaking bingo and
then say yeah you're fighting today here
next time you get your next time your
lungs seized up and you can't breathe
inhale this steroid and it was like
there's no thinking maybe diet is
affecting you you know maybe connections
you know maybe you should be looking at
other lifestyle factors maybe you
shouldn't be eating Cheerios and Mama
should be making you some some eggs in
the morning and maybe have some liver
once a week you know you're just little
things like that that we don't get told
in abundance and it almost goes against
conventional wisdom to what we end up
finding out works where it's like yeah
we need fats right and we that's the
heel
don't you find that it's it's it's it's
almost every single recommendation is
the truth is the opposite I mean it's
like it's literally I'm serious it's a
hundred percent it's so hard it's so
hard to like it could be really hard for
me to try and and legitimize any of the
things that the mainstream medical
establishment says so I'm just I feel
like myself
constantly just trying to understand
from somebody's perspective who buys
into the charade I don't I think it's
all the big charade at this point it's
like there's so much it's so backwards
and it's so maybe that's just the nature
of it though where it's like I don't
obviously doctors think they're doing
the right thing right and the people of
these pharmaceutical companies they
probably think that they're doing the
right thing because when you're blind
you can be completely blinded by greed
so easily people human beings are so
flawed we're so we're so open to
manipulation by our lower nature that
yeah I mean it's I mean to look at an
entire profession and think oh wow
that's like they've all been duped it's
really it's really not that hard I mean
humans are greedy creatures we really
easily puffed up with pride alright so
if you tell somebody that they're
brilliant because they went into $20,000
worth of debt or because daddy pushed
him so hard when they're a little kid
made him want to go to Harvard and
become a doctor and now you know they're
just trying to pay off their debt now
you know it's like we think that it's so
easy for us to to be blinded and to be
ideologically completely possessed by
something that's not beneficial to us or
anybody else just because we're making
money or because you know being we're
insecure and we want to be accepted by
society we want to be accepted by daddy
and mommy so therefore I'm a doctor or a
lawyer or you know whatever it is and we
tell ourselves and yeah it's so sad it's
so sad to see people suffer I have a
little other theory about like in
medical school because I went to pre-med
and you you basically do not have time
to learn the information you don't this
is too much style it's too much data
it's volumes of data so what you end up
doing is you end up
memorizing things getting passing the
test without any any application or
knowledge or any evaluation of the data
to see if it's true or not so we accept
it all is true and then you keep doing
that over over years and years and you
literally brainwash yourself to the
point where you get out of school and
you have all these fixed ideas because
you you can't think anymore you you went
in be able to think now you can't think
you're actually dumber when you graduate
you can't even your professors are also
in this your professors are just like a
little deeper into the prison to like
where they figured out like you know
they're like the shot-callers in the
prison but they get yeah they get like
the the more accolades and they think
they get a little bit more power and
they get a puffed-up so then you it's
it's so easy and I look at my university
experience and looking at every probably
I went to school within the whole system
it's like when you it kids out there if
you're in high school or something when
you graduate from university and you
know you get your bachelor's degree then
you get your master's degree then you
get your PhD now of course I've I
stopped at a bachelor's degree but I'll
tell you this you get your bachelor's
degree you come out just as dumb
confused lost frustrated and just
totally bewildered as when you graduated
eighth grade you're basically and you
can but you have debt and you're told
that you have this responsibility and
that responsibility and you know you've
got you got all this other stuff going
on oh man the whole the education
systems me I'm incredibly kind of black
pilled on the whole education system I
think that most of it is just it's to
create ideologies and it's not really
when you look at the people who created
the public school system and you look at
their writings they actually write about
it as a utopian concept that has nothing
to do with intellectual endeavor has
nothing to do with increasing human
intelligence it's about creating a
utopian society of perfect of a
perfectly functioning little society as
they see it to be ordered which is
basically a bunch of people doing
repetitive tasks in factories and you
know being able to regurgitate
information we're gonna say I'm gonna
mold you into being a perfect citizen
and you can work in our factories and
get your certification and I know it's I
think it's actually honestly I
told my kids that movie metropolis
remember it's like metropolis and and
the the neophytes student is the the
golem the the the false create creature
that's trying to be made and the whole
ritualistic society around it in this
film is it's just there to create this
new human which is a total robot in that
film and then I guess that's that's
pretty that's a pretty funny vision
other but I really isn't so far off from
that it's now now I think some of the
brightest minds they may either dropouts
or they are self-taught and I mean
unless you find it really I've had one
really good teacher chemistry but other
than that I mean there's some brilliant
guys in the humanities departments of
the schools that I went to that were
like Canaries in the coal mine right
there basically in there you know
speaking out against what's all around
them that's what I found there there's a
few good ones in there and then there's
a lot of ideologue who are just totally
puffed up with pride and they think
they're geniuses because they have a
paycheck and you know 18 year old girls
flirt with them over beers at the dining
hall it's sad you know I mean the
university system it's silly and I I
think I think it's valuable to get
educated and get and to learn like I
have obviously a voracious hunger for
knowledge but you know it's the Internet
and now not that the Internet's perfect
or you know that it's not addictive and
she bruins people many ways but we have
access to so much knowledge and we can
we can learn a lot outside of roarin
different structures and I think that
there's better ways to go about it then
we do in our modern system and I hope to
see reform in it and more independent
teachers right like guys like you who
are doubt they're educating people and
helping people and you mentioned that
you actually would you know train other
chiropractors and seminars and stuff too
so yeah I think this that's important
yeah that was some it was it was good it
was a lot of work but then I found out
it was easier to train the lay person I
was like wow they don't have all these
fixed ideas so what I did is I said you
know what I'm just gonna I'm gonna put
all this information out there and see
what happens and people liked it and
there apply and they get it they don't I
mean I think the more educated someone
is the more educated the harder it is
for them to learn new things and so I
had these guys that like went way beyond
their basic training and man they just
couldn't get it so I mean they got
straight A's but they couldn't they're
not very practical they couldn't quite
make it in the real life so anyway
that's it's a long story well I get you
know with nutrition it's the same thing
like you know ya had to kind of have to
figure it out outside the standard
guidelines that we've been given and you
know it's it's funny because we can be
told well this food these are bad
because they're high in cholesterol you
shouldn't have eggs or bacon you
shouldn't eat these foods because
they've got cholesterol I mean this is
these are the things that we've been
told and we have to actually be able to
first of all be intelligent enough to
question it and then second of all be
confident enough to be able to live in a
manner without being constantly worried
about the other narratives right it's
like you have to uh it takes a lot for
people to actually even start to
implement some of these nutritional
practices that have been around forever
like emags and butter right not cooking
in margarine not using vegetable oil not
eating bread every freakin meal because
it's not even human food
they're things that we've kind of had to
figure out on our own but you know I
think you know bringing it back to like
the basics of human nutrition that are
unavoidably important if certain fat
soluble vitamins that we need right I
mean we need things like vitamin A
vitamin D vitamin K and we need these
fat soluble vitamins we need protein
that's easily digested and a lot of
people aren't digesting very well and
animal-based foods actually digest
easier than any other foods out there
and we forget because we've been so
inundated with you know thinking the
soluble fiber and taking you know
psyllium husk powder and Metamucil is
how you get good digestion but you know
fats and foods like marrow play a really
important part in our bone marrows got
components and you can actually
regenerate your gut lining with I mean
bone marrow is filled with adiponectin
in our body so our bone marrow stores
this adiponectin
which helps us to maintain insulin
sensitivity helps us to break down fat
when it's also associated high levels of
adiponectin associated with decreased
risk of cardiovascular disease diabetes
and all these other conditions so I mean
just eating foods like this like Mara
where it's so rich in fats where it's
got all these stem cells of the animal
being stored in the fat in the marrow
and all these regenerative properties
have been associated with these foods
for millennia but we've suddenly started
throwing these foods out because we
thought they were useless so what am I
gonna do with these bones what I'm gonna
do with this liver now we forget that
the best parts the animal so you know
just learning how to implement that
foods like liver and heart one of the
things that we like to do we usually
recommend people when you're first
starting out try heart hearts one of the
most nutrient-dense pieces of the animal
and you can get it ground up just like
ground beef from a butcher yeah so you
just go to a butcher you get it crowned
up with your ground beef you can do like
75252 star or you can go up to like 50%
heart but we'll make meatball sometimes
with a hundred percent beef heart it's
very lean so you're probably gonna want
to add some sort of fat have with that
you know grass butter q10 on steroids
exactly litter like your heart you think
about your heart so your heart is the
most powerful magnetic field in your
body besides your brain and that's where
we've got the most mitochondria in our
body actually the heart and the brain so
these two tissues are also the some of
the most important stores of certain
vitamins and factors and you're not
gonna find elsewhere you know the brain
and got a lot of DHA the human brain
needs fats it's made mostly of
cholesterol and DHA and then coenzyme
q10 in heart you're not gonna find any
other food in the planet with more
colons on q10 than art also loads of
iron folate but it just tastes amazing
too so you didn't make meatballs with
ground-up heart we really like doing
that like Jessica's got some recipe
called Mama's best meatballs in her book
which she gave me an author credit but I
you know good my wife she did this whole
book Jessica she's the brains behind the
ketogenic edge cookbook so I kind of
I can't wait to get it because I I what
I want to do is now I I do a lot of
vegetables but I don't want to do like
chicken lean chicken breasts what I'd
like to do is do my bed user fermented
and then add the organ meats with that
that's what I want to try I think that
and then add the intermittent fasting
cuz you're gonna get like massive
quantities of fat soluble vitamins way
better than a piece of lean protein you
know like a chicken breast it I look at
chicken breast it's like then the totem
pole of protein sources like chicken is
least priority for me like ruminant
animals you're getting so much more and
the liver the heart I mean even the
brain like we show you how to make brain
in the book to it like real simple
traditional recipes that people have
used for so long like you know eggs and
brain scrambled eggs and brain is how
they do it here they'll make tortillas
as well with just the egg and the brain
and then they'll just fry it up on both
sides until I don't like to fry stuff
too super hardcore but here they'll make
a tortilla oh just brain the egg so I
mean it's you know these are foods that
and I live in Ecuador by the way for
definitely I don't think we talked about
that but I'm yeah you know just really
easy air Foods liver you can also the
little tip I gave about ground beef you
can grind up liver with it too so it's
like if you've got a week where you're
so busy and you're just man I don't want
to have to prepare five different meals
this week I'm gonna make a bunch of meat
this week you can just mix in some liver
and some heart ground liver ground heart
with your ground beef and have much more
nutrient density and you know of course
you know if you like vegetables we I
just because I don't eat vegetables
doesn't mean I think everybody should
avoid vegetables I know everybody's at
somewhere else in their journey and I
like to experiment with different things
so now I like you mentioned sauerkraut
because we put a sauerkraut recipe we
show you how to make sauerkraut in the
book to eat just those are all the foods
that you know that are our grandparents
were eating that every single generation
before us was preparing plants in a
specific way and using things like
fermentation storing things in specific
ways so I think it's I think it's
important that we understand how to
prepare these foods and yeah you know
properly prepared
sauerkraut can be so amazing I love the
juice the vitamins all art so here's
what I'm gonna do I'm going to I'm gonna
get your book and I'm gonna actually
we've been doing a series of like
recipes like keto bombs
but now we're gonna do a series of organ
meat recipes out of your book and we're
gonna try babies meatballs some we'll do
some heart we'll just some brain and
we'll just amazing as I think you can
input on ways to vary them too because
over the years you've always you know
it's like this was kind of made this was
like our kitchen this is kind of like
our kitchen transmute it into a book
okay we have it as a book - which is I'd
the ebooks way cheaper
obviously print it out but we we really
like we had a lot of fun doing this and
we really liked taking certain recipes
and rearranging them so we take like
Mama's best meatballs recipe which is
just like a normal meatball recipe not
too many ingredients simple
straightforward meatball recipe with a
little bit of crunch in it because that
always helps with meatballs but you can
just substitute some organ meat for that
ground beef and make that rest I'm gonna
try that I mean I know what it takes to
put together a recipe book it's like it
is a lot of work because you get it you
know type all the recipes out and in the
pictures and all that stuff so anyway
guys for those of you that are
interesting I'm gonna put a link with
his book down below so check it out but
we're gonna make some recipes and I
think I'm I want to do more organ stuff
and I think of course we're talking high
quality we're not talking like
conventional you know animal products
but yeah usually with the organs that
going for the grass yeah you want to
exactly not have a lot of hormones
people think foods like liver I think
when you talk about Oregon's people like
well isn't the liver and the kidney
aren't those filters don't those just
filter things out they think of it's
like I Drive on a dusty road all the
time here in Ecuador it's all dirt roads
and they I got to clean my air filter
every few months which glad I just
reminded myself I got to buy some of
this spray oil stuff to clean it out and
yeah but that's not what the liver does
so it's like the liver is you know dr.
burgher liver is making enzymes it's
making vitamins and storing vitamins so
that it can deal with and remove toxic
loads from the body extra toxins end up
when they can't be processed by the
liver being excreted in other ways or
stored in fat tissue so yeah I think
when you're eating like you know you're
May
in tallow I really prefer going for the
grass-fed high quality stuff whenever
possible and doing your best to get
quality so yeah we're will having food
quality for me absolutely
so I'm excited to do that and then I'll
I'll send you some of the videos and you
could see we'll see well it's basically
we're gonna do a taste test and we're
gonna experiment we'll put some stuff
together and we need to do a series of
these organ meats because it's people
just don't do it anymore so we'll
increase some awareness I think I think
how about you guys fly down here to
Ecuador come into our kitchen we'll make
some organ meats here you eat some
Ecuadorian grass-fed beef beef liver and
right down the street right there right
you know but for you to fly from Florida
it's not so long it's actually not so
long but uh yeah what Jen went to
Columbia how let's see Ecuador is
probably next to Peru isn't it yeah yeah
between Peru and Colombia yeah I've been
to Colombia that was an interesting what
was the name of that sitios and it was
an interesting city just Holley name a
couple more it's at the top party midday
een there's another another place I
can't remember
Colombia is a big beautiful country that
I've never been to I didn't know a lot
of really awesome salons doing really
well now with there's like very little
crime and it's really turned around the
economy's good but what happened was I
had to leave and the Pope is flying in
right after me and there was a hurricane
do you shine what the heck man there was
a hurricane and I'm like so I bought a
one-way ticket because I didn't know
when I was gonna come back and I was
doing a convention and so there's a
hurricane and they jacked up the price
is a one-way ticket I had to go from
Panama to Cancun to Texas cost me $2,500
for a one-way ticket back home and I'm
like ouch but anyway you're forever
traumatized so you'll never come visit
in Ecuador because what those dings
airlines going to Colombia this they're
actually good flights from from Miami to
poquito you know that the
capital of Ecuador is that is Quito
right yeah Wow what do you think I
didn't know that it's Q uit oh yeah yeah
so if you ever want to come over we can
have some Quito and Quito we have to
live down there we'll do Quito on Quito
in detail I love it yeah I love it maybe
we'll have to come up there next time we
come to the States gotta come to DC yeah
yeah Austin and a little bit of that
area yeah in Vermont but never been to
uh never been to Virginia you haven't
well Washington DC is a most amazing
plant for history historical you see you
know Mount Vernon and Old Town and
Jefferson I'm like it's all there it's
all the history is there it's really a
nice place to visit
yeah well New England it's just
beautiful it's amazing area yes I'd like
to the Boston area was really cool a lot
of history there too oh love it and
people these posts are really nice I
love you we're gonna be mean I'm from
California and everywhere else in the
world people are really nice I know
they're very nice in these coasts so you
got we got that going for us anyway um I
really enjoyed the talk and I got some
great tips and I think everyone's going
to get this book and look forward to
some of the recipes that we're gonna
make so thanks for excited to see I know
so am I so thanks for bringing me
awareness up of organ meats it's kind of
something that people need to start
focusing on thanks so much dr. Berg
really appreciate you having me on man
know what you do you know I mean you're
it's just incredible to see like how
many people you're able to reach on
YouTube and you know I'm definitely
inspired by your your productivity put
out two videos a day right like every
day and then I'm just amazed at how hard
you work and you know definitely we're
we're definitely inspired by about what
you do so thanks a lot man we appreciate
it my pleasure and let me know how this
technique does with your hip I will yes
I'm gonna get on that okay right after
this they don't always players know when
I'm sitting of course yeah
all right cool have a good one
