today we're going to talk about the
seven foods that you must avoid as well
as the ones that you should replace them
with when I'm at the grocery store I'll
see people putting these Foods in the
cart all the time and I just want to
walk up to them and tell them don't eat
that today we're going to tell you why
so let's dive in with the first one
liquid sugar not just soda talking about
juice too both of these products are
just as bad they both have roughly the
same amount of sugar the juice has a
little more sugar and it is true that
some of the soda out there has the high
fructose corn syrup and that's actually
worse than the sugar in the fruit but
not by much sometimes even with orange
juice they have to concentrate sometimes
they store it up to a year in this huge
container before they ship it and
reconstitute it by adding water and put
it on the Shelf this stuff is like
liquid candy or liquid sugar it's not
natural it's a massive amount of refined
carbohydrate and sugar and without the
protection of all the nutrients that are
extracted from the fruit juice and the
fruit juice is so refined and so
concentrated with sugar without
nutrients like vitamins and minerals
that actually help you process and
digest the sugar when you consume either
a soda or a juice you're really
depleting your body of the reserves
because the amount of damage that
processing that fuel goes through if you
want a good alternative other than just
drinking water you can do Zia that's
real popular it's one that I keep around
the house for um people that come by I I
I don't consume a lot of it it's too
sweet for me but at least it doesn't
have all this other crap in it number
two this type of cheese right here
pasteurized cheese product if a product
has less than
51% of it cheese they can't call it
cheese they have to call it something
else processed cheese cheese food or
pasteurize cheese product in fact in
Europe they definitely don't even use
the word cheese if something doesn't
have over 51% cheese only America so why
would I tell you to avoid this uh
wonderful thing I don't know if you call
it food that will melt easily on your
nachos well let's take a look at the
ingredients number one we have skim milk
canola oil milk protein concentrate
modified food starch modified food
starch is just more corn starch but it
could be coming from another starch and
just so you know modified food starch is
sugar then they add some whey protein
maltodextrin more preservatives a
tremendous amount of salt there is zero
cheese but they still call it a
pasteurized cheese product amazing they
do advertise it melts better than
cheddar cheese and guess what you don't
have to refrigerate it wow what does
that tell you number three protein bars
most of the protein bars out there worse
than candy bars even the ones that claim
to be low carb like the Ain bars if you
ever read the ingredients you will be
shocked this concept of like wow it's a
protein bar you're getting all this
protein you're getting some protein but
you're getting a plant-based protein
it's usually soy protein isolate
sometimes they add casine or
concentrated milk protein the cheapest
type of protein you could possibly
imagine and really is that the soy
protein they process it and make it with
you know solvents like hexane and other
chemicals because if you think about it
how are they going to get the isolated
protein out of that soybean the amount
of sugar in these protein bars are just
crazy high with a brief scan I found
between 30 G to 47 G per bar now that's
not even counting all the hidden
starches that also are sugar as well
they usually don't even use cane sugar
it's probably too expensive they use
rice syrup tapioca syrup corn syrup
these are just so highly processed many
of them have the vegetable oils which
are the seed oils which is just another
common alter processed food ingredient
and I'm talking about in The Cliff Bars
Kine bars Luna bars which I'm going to
read off right now from the label
protein grain blend soy protein isolate
rolled oats rice flour roasted soybeans
soy flour brown rice syrup peanuts then
we get some cane suger wow a little
peanut butter in there chory fiber syrup
vegetable glycerin peanut flour Palm
kernel solids sunflower and soybean oil
natural flavors and it has 23 g of
carbohydrates and 12 gram of fiber so
it's very very high in fiber but these
fibers are not not like vegetable fibers
they're the junk food fibers beware of
them because when you consume them
you're going to bloat you're going to
have intestinal pain it's coming from
that and then you have uh the Quest Bar
there's one ingredient I need to mention
ISO Malto Alo saccharides it's
advertised as a 100% natural Prebiotic
I'll tell you right now I don't care if
it's a Prebiotic it's basically a sugar
and it's going to raise your blood sugar
and then they also add sucralose which
is made from a Chlor compound it's going
to disrupt your uh gastrointestinal area
it's been known to increase the risk of
insulin resistance so avoid these
protein bars they're made with the
cheapest ingredient I've really had a
hard time finding any that I even liked
so I would recommend getting your
protein if you wanted a protein to go
bring some boiled eggs maybe some cheese
dehydrated meat number four seed oil
mayonnaise 99% of all the mayonnaise
that you see on the Shelf if you look at
the ingredients you will see the first
first ingredient being soy oil soy oil
is a seed oil and it is highly processed
goes through 10 chemical changes they
have to use solvents like hexane to
extract certain things they have to use
high Heats they have to take the odor
out they have to bleach it they have to
decolorize it de gum it and after they
completely alter it they put it in this
bottle so when you consume something
like this you are consuming something
that is highly INF inflammatory that's
very very heavy on the Omega 6 and very
low if any on the omega3 out of all of
the oil that people consume in the
United States over 55% of it is in the
form of soy oil 95% of that is GMO soy
that means it's been sprayed with
glyphosate which is an herbicide it's
the most widely consumed vegetable oil
in the United States and other parts of
the world as well a lot of people have
an allergy to it and they don't realize
that soya is hidden in so many different
foods in one study soy oil created more
obesity and more diabetes than fructose
it also has been linked to a fatty liver
sometimes you read the ingredients with
mayonnaise and you'll see that it's a
olive oil mayonnaise and then you
actually read the back label and you
find out most of this product is soy
with just a little bit of olive oil so
you have to kind of uh hunt and Peck for
alternatives to this that I have found
that don't have soy oil these are made
with avocado oil which is so much better
you have the Primal kitchen brand and
then you have another brand called
chosen number five sweetened and
flavored yogurt 70% of all yogurt that
people buy is this sweetened flavored
yogurt and if you actually do the
calculation on the back of the label you
will find there is more sugar per ounce
in the sweet and flavored yogurt than
there is an ice cream and of course if
you read the label it help have
artificial colorings artificial
flavorings red dye number 40 which so
many children are sensitive to one thing
you have to realize about when you
consume a food high in sugar it's going
to support the pathogens in your gut
it's not going to support the friendly
microbes so here you are consuming a
yogurt thinking you're getting a
probiotic when in fact you're just
supporting the bad guys not the good
bacteria so this is just a gimmick to
get you to think that you're getting
something that's going to help your gut
and realize that a lot of these yogurts
will say low fat and they just replace
it with higher sugar sometimes it'll say
real fruit but it's like only like 1%
fruit in the form of some Jam that they
put in there and of course as a
thickening agent they add corn starch
now cornstarch is not going to be in the
area of sugars even though it acts like
a sugar it's going to be in the total
carbohydrate as a starch but it won't be
listed as a starch it won't say starch
but what you have to realize is that
corn starch will act like sugar in fact
even worse than sugar on the glycemic
index it's going to just spike your
sugar and the main purpose of this
cornstarch is purely a filler to add
more bulk to the product the only
benefit of that yogurt is the calcium
the problem is with all that Sugar it's
going to prevent you from absorbing that
little bit of calcium that's now going
to be nullified so I would highly
recommend to consume plain whole fat
grass-fed yogurt from A2 protein cows
okay it's a certain type of protein now
I also consume organic Bulgarian yogurt
I like that but my ideal type of yogurt
is not even a yogurt it's a kefir I like
the whole fat kefir from grass-fed cows
or grass-fed sheep or goat and then if
you want to just add some berries to it
just add actual berries and blend it
it's delicious and definitely don't give
your kids the sweet and flavored yogurt
it's not going to help them number six
soy protein I already mentioned this
ingredient but I wanted to bring it up
as a category because it's in so many
foods it's a very cheap protein it's
going to mess up your gut your liver
probably because it has traces of hexane
we don't know for sure but it's very
refined isolated product that is not
natural to consume that not to mention
being GMO consume real protein meat eggs
Fish seafood and the last one I'm going
to talk about number seven is the
modified starches I already mentioned
this as well but I wanted to talk about
it as a category of food because it's
not really even a food it really was a
byproduct of Industry someone had this
idea like oh let's see I tell you what
you know what we could do we could put
this starch in the food supply right
because it's so cheap and its primary
goal is that it's a filler realize the
starch is a chain of sugars but it's not
sweet but it will definitely act like
sugar in fact worse than sugar cuz it
really will spike your blood sugar the
modified starches was a byproduct of the
Corn Sy industry as well so someone said
hey let's just put this in food and
create an industry around it which they
did because now it's a 12 billion
industry an average consumer consumes 30
lbs of modified starch every single year
and there's over 50 different names to
camouflage the starch not going to go
through all 50 but multitran modifi food
starch and to make it you have to go
through 10 chemical processes you have
to gum it take the color out bleach it
and the FDA allows up to 55% of it to be
in a food product but you can't go over
55% Doritos is 53% modified starch and
yes it will cause insulin resistance I
also noticed when I was looking at
different cauliflower crust for pizza
every one of them had this modified food
starch or tapioca flour or starch it's
in soups BAC Goods Meats everything and
its primary goal is to add bulk because
it's just a filler if you wanted a
starch do it like a natural starch
butternut squash beets plantains or even
if you want to give a starch to your
child give them like purple or red
potatoes that's a major step up from the
modified food starch
