I wanted to cover a very very important
system called the digestive system and
give you the basics and show you the
relationship between what symptoms occur
from different parts of the digestive
tract so let's just take a look at this
so we got the stomach thing right here
and the stomach makes us a very strong
acid there's two places in the body that
you have this strong acid one is in the
stomach one is in the vagina because you
want to kill off the bacteria and when
this pH becomes more alkaline you have
all sorts of issues that occur number
one you get undigested protein and
that's beautification that's gas number
two you're going to get heartburn why
because this pH has to be between one
and three to be able to keep this valve
closed and this pH goes higher more
alkaline then this valve starts opening
up right here and acid starts splashing
up here and a lot of times it's not even
this acid it's a waste acid that comes
down from here that comes up here that's
why it's really sour
so heartburn is a real problem with not
enough acid it's not too much acid so
every time you take tums or proton
inhibitors or antacids you actually make
it worse over time
now indigestion like the food just sits
right here that means you don't have
enough acid so what is the remedy
betaine hydrochloride the tain
hydrochloride it comes from beets and
you get it from the health of store take
two three maybe four with each meal
they're real small but that will
actually give you a lot of relief unless
you have an ulcer so if this has been
going on too long and have an ulcer then
you're going to have to you'll find out
real quick you'll let get more burning
but if it's if it's an ulcer you have to
heal it with chlorophyll one good remedy
would be cabbage or coleslaw there's
something in cabbage that's really good
for ulcers okay so now food comes down
here it's broken down and then the
pancreas is a workhorse because it has
to make enzymes enzymes our little
proteins that help break down food so to
pending on what you eat the body the
pancreas will make or release whatever
enzyme you need to break down that meal
so if it's more protein or carbohydrates
or fats it'll break it down and even
even has enzymes to break down the DNA
and the animal food that you eat I mean
that's incredible it breaks everything
down so but those people that need a lot
of sugar in their life they pretty much
kind of weakened their pancreas and they
also weakened the enzyme part of that
pancreas is called the extra can gland
and then they can't release these
enzymes and so they start having all
sorts of undigested proteins and guess
what guess where you get allergies from
allergies because that protein leaks
into the lining of the colon gets
absorbed through the lymphatic system
and your immune system starts to
inappropriately attack it as a microbe
and you start getting autoimmune
problems allergies asthma hay fever all
these things just because you can't
digest so a lot of times in autoimmune
cases you'll see undigested DNA in the
stool but this is a very important gland
to help secrete enzymes to help you
digest so if the pancreas has a problem
you're going to pain over the left lower
quadrant or upper lower abdomen right
through here underneath your left
ribcage and then it wraps around the
back - you'll have sticky stool
you'll get bloating you'll feel real
bloated over that area and you'll
probably the food will sit right here as
well so if that happens you can go to
Health the store and get some
it's called pankratov an enzyme which is
really good to help support the pancreas
and you'll get a lot of relief okay now
we got the liver the liver and release
this bile B IL e and it's stored in the
gall bladder and it releases down
through here and this is important
because you need the bile to squash all
that bile to start breaking down the
nutrition or the food factors especially
the fat to pull the fat soluble vitamins
vitamin A D E and K so the way you know
you have a gall bladder problem is if
you get bloating
ripping belching right shoulder pain
because it refers there or around the
back and the scapula or your stool will
start floating because you're not
digesting the fat so it just kind of
hangs out on top
so also you're going to have
deficiencies in the vision so the eyes
you can't see at night
that's vitamin A deficiency and then
real dry skin and then you would need
some good bile a support and I use a
gall bladder formula for that one with a
meal now we get down to the small
intestine your intestine is about 33
feet and in this intestine you have
close to 900 trillion microbes a lot of
microbes living in there between five
and a thousand different species of
friendly bacteria friendly yeast
friendly molds friendly fungus debt to
actually help you break down your stool
make vitamins for you help digest the
food help get rid of the waste
so it's kind of a symbiotic relationship
we give these microbes room and board
and they clean up our waste and they
give us vitamins and nutrition they also
take the pressure off the liver and that
they help detoxify chemicals but there
are unfriendly pathogens or microbes in
there as well and there's this constant
competition but most of the bacteria in
there is called lactobacillus and
lactobacillus makes lactic acid and
lactic acid makes it very uncomfortable
for the bad guys to live and so
apparently our body and the good
bacteria are resistant to acids they
like acid and because they make acid but
acid is attendent it tends to kill off
some of these microbes and that's why
even at the stomach level we need this
acid to kill off microbes too so if we
lose this we end up with h pylori and
other bacterias and viruses and our
immune system goes downhill and then if
we take antibiotics it just screws
everything up too so if you have
constipation yeast infection fungus bad
breath we know that your
justice system is lacking the flora the
friendly bacteria there's a product that
I recommend called pre-pro em1 which is
really good for that and you take before
bed and it slowly helps you reestablish
your flora or your friendly bacteria
yogurt does not supply enough yogurt
bacteria to make it stick like kefir
does so kefir is a much better product
get the plain one and its really good
for Candida and yeast okay so that's
just kind of a summary of digestion to
give you the basics and I hope that
helped
