hey guys dr. Burke here I wanted to
cover a situation where you have people
that will say you know I don't feel good
on keto it's not for me but I feel
really good in carbs so apparently carbs
must be good for my body right well
usually in that situation the person is
dealing with low blood sugars or even a
hypoglycemic situation hypoglycemia is
low blood sugar and so if you go from
one meal to the next in let's say you
get irritable and you can't handle going
over a long period of time without
eating some carbs that's usually a blood
sugar situation other symptoms would be
dizziness moodiness specifically craving
carbohydrates and all of a sudden you
you consume this and you just calm you
feel great everything's cool right
that's definitely a low blood sugar
situation and usually the person who
also has infinite resistance whereby the
insulin which is like the key is not
connecting into the cell anymore because
the person's many many years of eating
carbs or frequent meals okay so that
creates a resistance against insulin it
doesn't go in there and then that
doesn't allow open the door for the
sugar to go into the cell so it's harder
and harder to absorb sugar thereby it's
harder to regulate sugar and then you're
needing more sugar to create that effect
okay you don't you can't run your field
nice and stable over a long period of
time so the stored sugar in your muscles
will drop too quickly end up with a low
blood sugar so what you have to realize
if you're in this situation is that it
doesn't mean that carbs are better for
you it means that you need to stabilize
your blood sugar so what I'm going to
recommend to fix this is you need to add
more potassium bigger salads at the meal
you don't want to go too high in protein
moderate amount of protein but also do a
little more fat at the meal it's whether
it's a peanut butter or nuts or coconut
butter or coconut oil or avocado or brie
cheese at the meal enough to go from one
meal to the next the worst mistake you
can make is eat too many carbs or
especially the grains the bread the rice
all that or the juice because that's
going to just really drop it further
so I mean what's happening when you're
living on carbs is that you eat you feel
better after your you eat the carbs but
then it goes right back down now you're
hungry again up and down so you never
really stabilize the blood sugar and it
creates more insulin resistance okay
so the way you know that you have a
problem is you can't go from one meal to
the next without feeling kind of moody
or irritable or craving sweets or
feeling comfortable all right I put a
link down below of how to do it fully
it's a little mini course alright thanks
for watching hi guys hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you a report
