hi guys in this video we're gonna
discuss how you could possibly have
elevated cholesterol when you're in a
low carbohydrate diet it doesn't make
sense because here you are cutting out
the sugars low carbs keto and the
cholesterol is increasing right before
you freak out let's just explain what's
happening you're actually losing weight
you're losing fat the fat cell is
composed of triglycerides and
cholesterol this stuff has to come out
so guess what's going to happen in your
blood it's going to increase the key
word is temporarily it's not going to be
for a long time it's a temporary spike
in cholesterol okay now I created three
or four videos that I'm gonna put a link
down below that will give you more
information about looking at the LDL and
the triglycerides in the HDL to give you
a better understanding of really what's
going on so the main thing you want to
do is continue to consume large amounts
of vegetables because you're getting all
this fat that's coming out if you have a
lot of fat to release from the fat cell
you don't want it to plug up the liver
in other organs you want to keep the
vegetables about 7 to 10 cups over the
kale shake consistently to flush all
this stuff out so it's not going to be a
problem so go ahead and watch the video
links below hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quiz
