hey dr. Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about what to do when
you've tried everything and nothing is
working I'm going to create a series of
videos in the next couple of weeks that
will cover and address all the other
factors that go beyond just losing
weight okay so when you tried everything
and nothing's work nothing has worked
you want to look outside the box okay so
the concept we're going to talk about in
this video has to do with the dominating
hormones that make fat see there are
various things that the majority of
people focus on with trying to boost
their metabolism or increase the fat
burning hormones and there's six of them
and that's really cool you know exercise
eating certain foods but what about the
three dominating hormones there are
hormones that make fat that will nullify
any chance of you losing weight because
they cancel out that fat-burning effect
of the good hormones or the fat burning
hormones yeah I'm sorry to tell you that
but yeah the first one we're talking
about is cortisol so in the presence of
just a little bit of cortisol it cancel
out a lot of good stuff it's kind of
like if you had a really great day and
everything went well and then that one
little negative thing happened that just
ruined the whole day the same thing in
the body so this explains why portion
control doesn't work or everything in
moderation because just a little bit of
the bad stuff can wipe out all the good
stuff and I'll have people that will say
well I'm just going to eat what I want
and exercise more well
sorry that may work if you're 18 but not
when you get close to 40s and 50s
because these hormones are involved so
there's six fat burning hormones there's
three hormones that actually dominate
and make fat first we're going to talk
about is cortisol cortisol is a stress
hormone it's made by the gland on top of
your kidney you got two of them right
here and it's activated by all forms of
stress emotional stress physical stress
and other types of stress food stress so
cortisol is a stress hormone in the
presence of cortisol it's going to be
really hard to lose your belly fat in
the presence of sustained cortisol over
many many years it will literally
make you age very very fast and it even
will keep it'll turn your muscle into
sugar so if your diet is good your body
is actually being converted to sugar as
fuel even if you're not eating sugar so
it's a very deadly hormone so what we
want to do is two main things to focus
on number one we want to reduce stress
all right let's just go a little bit
deeper and how to do that
number one exercise obviously will
decrease stress especially if you're
sitting me on a computer all day you
need to get out there and exercise you
get it off but you want to exercise
based on your fitness level your
physiology don't overtrain
in the next couple of videos we'll get
more into like how to exercise but in
this little video I'm just going to be
make you aware that you need to exercise
walking would be good if you're not
sleeping that well so I would exercise
to the degree that you're sleeping so if
you're not sleeping in your fatigue you
want to exercise lower lower intensity
like walking if you're sleeping of
energy you can increase the intensity so
go based on how you feel if you don't
feel like exercising then do it very
light but walking is very very important
when reducing stress and you can do yoga
and stretching and things like that
secondly the sleep the sleep is very
important because sleep is where you
extract stress as well but you want to
get in bed by 10:30 because that's the
first wave of sleep and ideally we want
to sleep for seven hours if you have a
problem with sleep and you're not able
to sleep because you're stressed out I
recommend taking adrenal support formula
because one of those before bed will
help you get into the deep sleep that
says as a little solution to that number
three nutrition there's three main key
nutrients that help people sleep number
one the B vitamins and I like to get my
B vitamins through nutritional yeast and
not brewers yeast but nutritional yeast
from the health of store take a
tablespoon and put it into your food you
could put it on a little plain yogurt
and then consume that once a day that
will help that internal anxiety stress
build up and it actually will help vivid
very vivid dreams and very active dreams
and nightmares if you have that we know
your deficiency you're deficient in B
vitamins second one is calcium calcium
do not take calcium carbonate get a
calcium citrate or calcium lactate and
take that before bed because calcium
will help wine you down so calcium and D
vitamins and then potassium I like to
take my potassium from the vegetable
source you need seven cups because not
only we get the potassium from the
vegetables you'll get a lot of other
nutrients as well from those vegetables
so we need that potassium very high if
potassium goes down then stress goes up
because potassium is a physiological
relaxer that helps you sleep okay so we
got that next one decrease stress from
people I would say that out of all the
things that stress people out other
people that are on the top of the list
here you have a situation between you're
stuck between a rock and a hard place
you're working in a place where your
boss is a jerk and you can't control the
situation so any situation that you're
in out of control you can't you can't
quit you stuck in a sit in such
situation let's say you're married to
someone who you're not really happy with
that could be an ongoing stress and even
let's say you're stuck taking care of a
sick parent who's slightly irritable and
you're taking care of a child at the
same time and you're right in the middle
so that is a situation there's basically
two types of people people that bring
you up and people that bring you down
and I really kind of regardless of what
people say I pretty much go by how they
make me feel when I'm around them and
not necessarily I'm instigating
something but there's certain people
that you around them that you feel like
crap and they're usually invalidating
you and they might do it covertly they
might say something like oh yeah you're
kind of a cute chubby person or you if
you lost a little weight you'd be really
cute like these little critical comments
those people you just need to avoid them
because these are stressful
personalities and then
you have the physical stress physical
that's the body problems you have maybe
diabetes you have pain you have sleeping
problems you have menstrual problems
that will keep the stress high as well
so that will also increase quarto so
let's some things that I work with on
the physical level but now we get to the
next thing you want to do two things you
want to decrease stress and you want to
increase pleasure that's right
pleasure will decrease cortisol but very
few people are really focusing on
getting more pleasure in their life
they're focusing on eliminating or
avoiding stress so that's cool but I'll
see this like with a female single mom
pushes themselves take care of the kids
a husband you know going to school
working and pushing pushing pushing but
there's no time for her or any pleasure
at all I see this on a daily basis and
they're stressed out to the max so you
want to find things that you enjoy doing
and start doing them and in acts of
therapy increase the pleasure of your
life whatever that might mean to you one
way people get pleasures through eating
but what we want to do is we want to
replace those sweet carbs with fat the
reason why people don't do that is that
they don't realize that the sweet carbs
will spike insulin but the fat doesn't
but we're taught that most diets you
need to stay away from the fats but
believe it or not the fat burning
hormones actually the fat making
hormones none of these actually are
influenced by fat so fat is a neutral
food it's something you can consume as a
pleasure source so people do get
pleasure from bacon and eggs fattier
butter cream so any of those foul to
your recipes deep fried chicken or
shrimp in maybe some coconut oil with
some almond flour right with spices not
a problem with that at all so we want to
replace the carb with more fattier foods
okay so those are some of the tips to
lower cortisol
okay so the next dominating fat making
hormone is called insulin and now
insulin is a hormone that regulates the
sugar in your blood so when you lose the
ability to regulate sugar it tends to go
high okay and that's called diabetes low
sugar is called hypoglycemia but high
would be diabetes okay so what triggers
insulin is sugar and you may already
know that okay so you know you need to
avoid sugar but what I want to talk
about is an interesting fact that I want
to put more emphasis on because it's
very very very important in the presence
of just a little bit of insulin I'm
talking about a little bit of tiny bit
especially as you age and your
metabolism slows down a little bit of
insulin will cancel a lot of good work
that you're doing in fact for some
people all it will take is about 80
calories that's like one cookie half a
glass of juice I have a glass of wine
which basically is sugar to block that
burning up to 72 hours yeah I know so
this is this is the problem is that the
philosophy of everything in moderation
or portion control does not work when
you're talking about hormones so insulin
is a very powerful blocker and and I'm
just I'm not just talking about actual
sugar in handy I'm talking about all the
hidden sugars like breads pastas cereal
crackers biscuits waffles pancakes
muffin soda and then you have juice you
have what else you have MSG monosodium
glutamate it's in a lot of foods it's
hidden now as modified food starch I
created a whole video on that in in
somewhere on this blog so you can check
it out but insulin we need to avoid that
okay now lastly the last one is called
estrogen now estrogen is also dominating
hormone it's not as important is insulin
but it's a factor that can keep you from
losing weight number one
if your menstrual cycle is too heavy if
it's too long if it's too painful if
it's irregular chances are your estrogen
dominant too much estrogen will make you
get fat in the hips in the butt and
lower pooch below the belly button and
it will eventually cause a fibroid which
then will make more estrogen yeah so
it's just kind of a never-ending cycle
and of course there's there's
environmental estrogens like you would
take birth control pills or hormone
replacement therapy or even a pregnancy
could spike the estrogen environmentally
it could be also the hormones in the
food supply that you're consuming and it
also could be soy soy is very estrogenic
so these are just some common things
that you have to be aware of when you're
trying to do lose weight and nothing's
working you want to look at anything
that's triggering these counter hormones
not just these right here so I hope I
increase the awareness of to take to
look at other things outside the box
because you have to be able to look very
lateral to see what's causing your
situation I'll see you the next video
