you know a lot of people love wheat
products right breads pasta cereal
crackers biscuits waffles pancakes
things like that and so if there is a
way that you can actually eat wheat
without any side effects at all and you
can have as much as you want uh wouldn't
that be great and the answer is yes
there is a type of wheat that you can
have as much as you want and you're
going to be really excited about this
well I think I'm a little bit sarcastic
but you can have wheat in in the form of
weak Rass that's right weak Rass well
you're probably not too excited about
that but today I'm going to talk about
some really interesting benefits of weak
grass and what it can do for your health
now full disclosure I do sell weat crass
juice powder okay I'm just telling you
that before I start this video and
secondly I'm not going to make any
claims that consuming weat crass juice
can do anything for your health prevent
anything help reduce the risk of any
diseases I just want to explain some of
the research and there's some really
interesting things about wheat Crest
that I want to share with you so what is
the difference between wheat that you
would use in making Breads and pastas
and things like that versus the wheat
and the wheat grass juice well with all
the Breads and pastas and cereals and
crackers that is made with the seed of
the plant okay the Grain and weat grass
is without the seed it's the actual
plant that the seed grows on and so
you're consuming this in the like the
micro green phase which is usually about
seven to eight to nine or 10 days a lot
of different opinions about weat crass
juice um like it's the new age espresso
people use it in different cleansing
detox programs but I think the health of
the weak grass um is dependent on what
it's grown on so if you're going to the
health food store and you're you're
buying wheat grass in um trays that's
grown on like this uh fiber coconut or
or nothing at all versus Ione on actual
soil I think there's a big difference in
nutrition also you have products that
are weak Rass powder products versus
weak Rass juice powder very very
different the weak grass juice powder is
way more concentrated because it doesn't
have any fiber in it and it takes a
tremendous amount of wheat grass to make
just a little bit of that weak grass
juice powder and there is several
advantage of doing the we grass juice
powder because um especially if you have
irritable bow inflammation in your gut
you can't do fiber I mean it's pretty
bizarre to think celiac disease right
which is a severe intestinal
inflammatory condition where you're
getting
destruction of the lining of your colon
comes from gluten which is in wheat
products and other grains yet if you did
the weak grass juice powder it would not
create that effect because there's no
gluten in wheat grass uh at all so
that's interesting it's like opposite
ends of the spectrum the gluten is
contained in the grain which occurs
later in the plant's cycle if you
capture a baby plant uh when it's very
small um you avoid any of the grains but
it also means that you avoid a lot of
the other things that are bad too like
the anti-nutrients like phytic acid
which blocks the absorption of certain
minerals so there's very very low if any
uh itic acid in uh wheat grass but
there's a lot in the grain because it's
in that brand portion of the seed then
you also have a great uh reduction of
the tannins which are also kind of toxic
to people and there is a much much lower
amount of oets which can lead to kidney
stones and can create arthritis or
inflammation through the body so with
the weat grass juice you have this
interesting very low antinutrients no
gluten okay it's actually low carb and
you get higher levels of nutrients okay
vitamin C uh the precursor of vitamin A
beta katene you have a lot of the trace
minerals the minerals and of course that
depends on what it's grown on as well
you get the B vitamins you get folate
and what's interesting we had our weaker
juice uh powder tested and there were
high levels of B12 now first of all
plants don't make B12 so apparently that
B12 was created from a microorganism
that lives within that that plant
because one of the things that the farm
that grows the weak grass juice powder
that I use they don't sterilize so
nothing is heated over 106 degrees so
you have microorganisms living that can
survive that temperature and so that can
add an additional benefit there's even
17 amino acids in this weak Rass juice
but I don't even consume it for the
vitamins I consume it for two other
things one is the chlorophyll which 70%
of weak grass juice is chlorophyll and
secondly for all the phytonutrients
there are hundreds if not thousands of
phytonutrients in uh this micr grain and
other micr grain that have all sorts of
very cool properties which I'm going to
talk about but first let me just mention
this chlorophyll compound I don't know
if you knew this but chlorophyll is
identical to your own blood except for
one little thing instead of iron it
contains magnes magesium I mean it's
pretty wild that when someone consumes
that green liquid from a plant they're
consuming something that is so close to
your blood but with magnesium it's
pretty wild and there's also studies
that shows that chlorophyll can
stimulate the production of your own red
blood cells if you have anemia and it
also has the ability to stimulate the uh
blood stem cells as well but I'm not
making any claims that it'll do do
anything for you just read the research
on this yourself now let's just talk a
little bit about the phytonutrients you
know there's phytonutrients help to um
reduce the complications of a lot of
different health problems they have
anti-inflammatory properties antioxidant
properties antimicrobial properties but
the phytonutrients that I want to talk
about today relate to uh a condition
that I found some interesting research
on and that's phemia that is a genetic
blood disorder where the person is not
making enough hemoglobin which is the
protein that carries oxygen in your
blood so it's a type of anemia there's
also some other problems with this
disorder you're not making enough white
blood cells Lucy and also you have a
deficiency of thrombocytes so we have
low red blood cells low white blood
cells and low thrombocytes which
actually have to do with the clotting
factors and so the problem is the
treatment for this disorder has a lot of
side effects I mean one of the
treatments is like a bone marrow
replacement other treatments involved
bone marrow stimulants blood
transfusions etc etc but there's some
alternative treatments that they're
trying with some pretty good
Effectiveness and that has to do with
weak grass and they found through a
research experiment which I'll put down
below that there's something in Weak
Rass juice that can increase your white
blood cells that can increase your red
blood cells that can also increase your
thrombocytes and so it's very good for
anemia but I want to mention again this
is just educational I'm not making any
claims it's going to do anything for you
at all now it's very very inexpensive to
make your own wheat grass juice just by
growing it I highly recommend that you
grow it in a tray of soil okay and it
only takes like seven days to grow it so
you can actually juice your own and use
that tray to juice and then take your
own shots that would be a very expensive
yet um super healthy way to get these
phytonutrients and since we're talking
about concentrated phytonutrients if you
have not seen this video you should
check it out I put it up right here
