so I wanted to create a video on
intermittent fasting in higher levels of
fitness I had someone ask me a question
there a bodybuilder they compete and
they're having a hard time doing this
with their performance and they want to
know should they increase more
carbohydrates okay so let's just talk
about that so the first thing I'm going
to do is really get your body fat
adapted okay it could take some time
especially if you're an athlete so
because with time it becomes more and
more efficient the system becomes more
efficient and you're less reliant on the
stored sugar glycogen and you can
actually just burn fat and your
performance will go up but with keto you
have the flexibility to go from 20 grams
to 50 grams on the high end for carbs so
I would suggest definitely go to the
higher end and start with 50 grams of
carbohydrates now if you're an athlete
and you're like 20 years old or you're
18 years old you could probably go to 60
maybe even 70 okay without a problem and
still get into a pretty hardcore ketosis
but the type of carbohydrates are very
important you want to try to consume the
carbs that are low in the glycemic index
and also low on the glycemic load I'm
gonna put a video down below on more
information about that so berries would
be very good to consume versus apples
for example the type of berry would be
blackberry and raspberry green bananas
is another option not the yellow bananas
but the green bananas because they are
low on the glycemic index potatoes are
not a good idea unless they're raw okay
but who's going to eat a raw potato but
raw potatoes have a very low glycemic
index hummus it's still a carb it's
lower on the glycemic index so consuming
50 grams of these I think would be a
great thing for someone that is doing a
higher level of performance whether it's
a competing or maybe a CrossFit workouts
or long distance running alright thanks
for watching
so we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
