hey Dr Burg here in this video I'm going
to show you how to improve your sleeping
simply because 99% of all uh fat burning
occurs when you're sleeping not during
the day so we want to get to sleep to
get a ton stomach so when you go to
sleep at night you need to go to bed
fast some people lay in the bed about
like an hour they can't wind down so
here's what we're going to do um you're
going to consume four stocks of this now
this whole thing is not a stock like one
of these is a stock so you do four of
these small little things right here
which is not hard right before you go to
the bed because what happens is it
blocks um an enzyme that makes
adrenaline and the chemical in celery
that does it is this thing right here
you need to you don't need to know it or
even be able to pronounce it but that is
the chemical in celery that will help
you wind down fast and it's been s shown
to actually decrease blood pressure as
well so that's just one tip I want to
give you go ahead and try it and uh see
if it works
