in this video I'm going to show you the
number one best tip for intermittent
fasting to help lose your belly fat let
me first explain the relationship
between insulin and fat storage using
different size batteries this big
battery represents your fat this small
tiny battery represents how much sugar
you have in your liver that's stored and
an average skinny person is holding
about a 100,000 calories okay of fat
with only
1,700 calories of sugar storage so an
average thin person has 58 times more
stored fat than sugar so how do we
transition from the sugar to the fat
well we have to lower insulin so the
intermittent fasting tips I'm going to
show you have one goal to drop insulin
so you make this transition from sugar
burning to fat burning all right let's
start with the seventh tip okay 2
tablespoons of apple cider vinegar in a
glass of water why because apple cider
vinegar lowers your blood sugars and it
lowers insulin and insulin is the fat
making hormone and the barrier to losing
weight and this is so simple everyone
can do it just do one two or even three
of these drinks in a given day all right
number six you want to combine the low
carb ketogenic diet with intermittent
fasting this is a onew punch just by
doing intermittent fasting you're going
to lower insulin but if you add the low
carb with it you are going to be very
very successful plus going low carb is
going to allow you to transition into
fat burning a lot quicker versus just
doing intermittent fasting by itself and
the way that you know you're in fat
burning is you have no more appetite
okay so then it'll be easy to continue
all right tip number five when we start
out we want to start out with a high fat
diet but then as you transition and your
appetite is a lot less you know several
weeks into this then we'll start
reducing the fat this way we can tap
into more of the ketones from our own
body fat versus the fat that comes from
our diet all right tip number four we
want to enhance your sleep but to do
that we have to lower your stress and
what's even better than exercise for
stress and sleep is physical work around
the house or physical work around your
yard outside anything you do like that
is a lot more productive so you get
something done you're not just running
on a treadmill and physical work does
something else for your mind it gets
your attention off the stresses of Life
tip number three is exercising in a
fasting State versus exercising right
after a meal there are actually 26
different studies that show that when
you exercise in a fasting State you'll
burn more fat so this is just
compounding your results by adding
another strategy that can speed things
up for you and as far as the type of
exercise I recommend doing a combination
of higher intensity but not more than
twice a week because we don't want to
overtrain on the off days you want to do
long walks all right tip number two you
need to add more sea salt and when you
lose water weight you're going to lose
electrolytes especially salt and if
you're low on salt and you're doing
fasting you're going to feel weaker
you're going to feel tired a lot of
people do not realize how much salt they
actually need especially when they're
doing fasting if you're low on salt
you're not going to sleep that good
especially in the first part of the
sleep so be more mindful of adding a
little more salt to your food all right
for the number one tip this is the most
important tip make note of this you want
to let your body determine the
intermittent fasting pattern by hunger
so here's the rule don't eat unless
you're hungry this way will allow your
body to transition to this at the right
pace some people can fast longer than
others once your body gets in this
amazing adapted State and you're burning
fat you should be feeling great mentally
and physically if you don't it means
that you're not ready yet and you have
to keep doing it and just take your time
all right so now that you have all these
tips the next thing to learn is what to
eat when you eat and for that I put this
video right here check it
out
