I want to share some important insights
on breakfast foods eggs oatmeal toast
pancakes meat all sorts of foods that
people eat for breakfast what you eat as
your first meal is going to totally
affect how you feel through the rest of
the day it will also affect your ability
to focus your creative ability to solve
problems also how you sleep at night I
also want to get into fasting and just
share some insights with breakfast
because there are levels of good and bad
my typical breakfast that I had for
years was this right here saw this
before Life cereal sometimes believe it
or not I would do Pop-Tarts I did that
for many many years and what I did not
know is I didn't have any concept of
insulin resistance insulin is not
working like it should in the cells
insulin helps you absorb fuel but it
also helps you absorb sugar into the
cells and if you have resistance to
insulin you can't really absorb Fuel and
of course the first place to notice it
is in your brain the actual cells in my
brain just weren't absorbing sugar that
well but I needed more and more sugar to
fuel the brain I also didn't know how to
make ketones the way that you make
ketones is you have to lower your carbs
and sugar and also you can do it with
fasting and the body has no choice but
then then convert over to making ketones
ketones are a wonderful thing for the
brain ketones bring your mood up and
you're burning your own fat when I was
eating the carbohydrate breakfast I was
hungry in about an hour and a half once
I got my body into ketosis I could go
for a long period of time without meals
I'm excited about our new product we
just released called multi collagen
peptides there are a lot of collagen
Brands out there but many are from
animals that are not grass-fed they're
not pasture raised guess what this is
and we use the word multi because it
comes from various sources chicken
collagen chicken egg membranes and fish
and beef collagen to have a synergistic
effect on your skin your ligaments your
tendons your bones if you want a high
quality collagen product you might want
to try this one there are healthier
versions of this if we were just to
improve the version of this and this to
something like this the magic spoon
right which has no sugars this is a
little bit better or something like this
keto granola that might be a good option
too if you look at the ingredients
there's no added sugar or anything it's
just like peans dried coconuts sunflower
seeds pumpkin seeds or something like
this they're not adding all this extra
sugar in there what about oatmeal this
stuff is just here alra processed food
calories you they add so much sugar
starch you don't want to have that if we
upgrade from that then you would do like
just regular oatmeal without anything
added and of course the ultimate type of
oatmeal is steel cut oats yes it's not
as convenient it takes a while to cook
like 30 to 40 minutes but that's a lot
better I'm not going to discourage
people from eating it if it seems to be
working for them but I do want to give
one more upgrade oatmeal is something
that is heavily sprayed with glyphosate
that's an herbicide that's the stuff in
all the GMO foods but oatmeal is not GMO
why are they spraying this herbicide
this weed killer on oats to dry it out
very very fast they also spray it on
wheat you're getting a lot of glyphosate
which is not good for your body it's
been shown to cause cancer and it's
going to mess with your gut if you're
going to do organic oatmeal without all
the other crap in it I mean there are
people that Liv oatmeal their entire
life and they're fine they probably
don't eat a lot of other processed foods
they just might add the oatmeal and they
have a lot of other things you see you
have like two extreme diets right you
have the low carb ketogenic diet over
here and then you also have the a vegan
diet over here both of them can get
great results with things like diabetes
and then you also have really dirty keto
process ingredients in the ketogenic
like snack foods I think if we look at
the keto versus vegan and you pull out
these alra processed type refined Foods
you're going to be able to reduce a lot
of problems personally I could not do a
vegan diet I was just literally starving
I need animal protein let's talk about
protein for a second especially as your
first meal if you were to make just one
simple change that would produce
probably the biggest effect of your life
it would be to replace your breakfast
food from whatever you're eating to more
protein meat even bacon let's talk about
eggs okay of course there's different
levels of eggs and I'm talking about
quality of eggs you know what if you're
a college student struggling financially
like I was any egg will be better than
nothing it's going to definitely be a
step up from any of this right here what
about bacon now there's levels of bacon
I probably wouldn't eat bacon unless it
was organic and no sugar eggs and bacon
perfect breakfast maybe you want to
throw an avocado in there maybe you want
to add some cheese you can get some
really good European cheeses in America
that are raw cheese that are super
healthy I would not consume American
cheese I wouldn't do any type of alvita
cheese has a lot of nutrition plus it's
a fermented product so it has good
bacteria it's a good source of protein I
also do yogurt you can do Greek yogurt
this is organic White Mountain Bulgarian
yogurt it's like a probiotic I do like
this one or actually even to make my own
probiotic if you haven't seen that video
I'll put a link down below of course I
am addicted to coffee I think coffee
honestly is out of all the things it's
fine I would try to do organic coffee
this is the type of coffee that I
consume kickass coffee and this is
organic and I'll do like a small cup
with half and half cream and that's it
if you have kids sometimes they have a
super fast metabolism and you don't want
to necessarily just give them
Wonderbread you should try the sprouted
bread Ezekiel Bread actually is one of
the better breads there's less gluten
there's less bad things there's some
other protein that I think can make you
feel even better than egg protein when I
consume rad meat I also do pork sausage
there is some good nutrient density in
there in fact out of all the things that
have the most vitamin B1 is pork
sometimes you might have kids and they
don't want to eat eggs they're finicky
they're not going to eat meat they're
not going to do the yogurt they're going
to have to do something like Ezekiel
bread right maybe you want to add some
peanut butter to it of course the peanut
butter would be the Valencia peanut
butter it's organic get it from Trader
Joe's if you start to lower your
carbohydrate it's going to really help
your brain and really get you into
ketosis and if you have been eating cars
for many many years you may find that
around 8:00 in the morning you're
getting hungry what's happening at 8:00
in the morning you're getting a spike of
something called cortisol because it's a
natural circadian wave if you just
ignore that and wait that goes away I've
been doing this pattern for many years I
would eat at noon roughly maybe a little
later and then at dinner right two meals
for a long time and of course I'm always
experimenting back and forth and I found
something that is working a little
better for me right now that you might
want to try as well what I've done is I
ate a breakfast 10 10:30 okay that's my
first meal of the day and then I'll have
the second meal maybe early afternoon
3:00 or 4: maybe 4:30 why am I doing
that because I want most of the energy
in the beginning part of the day I don't
want a lot of energy at night versus
fasting for the first part of the day
and get in my fuel from fat but that
actually worked initially for a long
period of time and it probably still
would work but I like to do a lot of
physical work in the morning another
little variable that's so important is
your sleep if you just get one hour or
less of sleep let's say you get six
hours versus seven it makes a huge
change in your blood sugar and your
mental cognitive State I was living on 6
hours of sleep for years and now I'm
getting probably eight hours of sleep
which is actually increasing at two
hours wow what a difference with my
ability to go for a long period of time
without needing food my blood sugars are
so much better my cognitive function is
so much better just wanted to do this
upgraded video on breakfast foods
because the type of foods that you eat
for that first meal will determine so
many different effects it's crazy thanks
for watching
