hey guys it's me again we're going to do
another before and after now we have
someone with wrist pain your right wrist
bothers you so tell me just a little bit
about what's going on with your wrist so
I've had tendonitis for several years
and it's you know I need to do yoga to
keep my back in check and that helps but
it's hard with the wrist so it's it
doesn't go back all the way and I can't
put pressure on it so I can't do the
planks and the push ups in that kind of
position and the downward dog all of
that it just makes it really difficult I
can just do it for a much shorter amount
of time and hold it and then the pain
comes in also chopping vegetables and
using my hands just it just gets really
tight and sore and you know I can't
vacuum because that's sort of in and out
just like it's like too much but it's
just this right wrist here and I've done
a lot I've done the physical therapy
even went as far maybe I think 10 years
ago to do radiation and I do I do these
stretches that that help but it just
doesn't go away so anytime yeah anytime
I'm like doing you know the type of
thing that I want to be doing which is
like exercising on the floor push-ups
that type of thing yoga it just it
flares okay so what we know for sure is
that there has to be something else
going on with this there has to be
something else going on so we're going
to go a little deeper and so I have a
question do you have digestive problems
yes I do have a history of that I'm on
it with with diet but I know that
there's still some lingering issues I'm
really in control with die and
probiotics but there is still some
lingering issue so definitely yes okay
so the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna do a little before because it
doesn't really hurt when she doesn't
move it it's like when she moves it or
activates it so go ahead and try to like
do like a little push up or resistance
and tell me if you feel something yeah
so I mean if I put my weight on it I'll
definitely just like a push up position
so you can see it won't go as far as
this hand in terms of the angle and and
it just begins to feel like it's going
to give way yeah it's kind of like a
weakness yes okay so unstable weakness
and and yeah unstable weak and very
tender and painful yeah okay so what we
want to do is we want to rate that 10
being fully strong zero being completely
weak give me a number um I would say six
okay so what we want to do is we want to
isolate it now the first thing I'm going
to check before I do anything is the
gallbladder why because the gallbladder
is a source of a lot of problems it's it
creates the nerve that goes up to the
the nerves of the neck which happen to
connect to the hand
I've had people come in with splints on
the hand the thumb the fingers and
they're like ah what's wrong they get
therapy nothing happens so let's just
see if the gallbladder is involved I'm
going to do a little tiny little test so
I'm going to have you lay on your back
with your head over here
so if you've watched some of my other
videos you probably see that there's a
lot of hidden pain syndromes from
gallbladder so I'm just going to kind of
gently kind of stimulate the flow of the
gallbladder so it can drain a little bit
and tell me if that's is it sore a
little bit yeah
right there yeah again are not pressing
on the gallbladder the soft tissue
around the gallbladder which is
connected to the gallbladder and I'm
just and you can even do this to
yourself
you work on this little area right here
you find out where the tenderness is
yeah right there good morning and I'm
just going to hold this for about an
hour now looks good
I'm doing this for about two minutes
here and pressing up into this area
right here so the next thing we do is
just compare so now let's have our set
up let's have you sit right here
and then go ahead and do the same thing
you did before and let's just compare it
was a six tell me what's going on now
hmm hmm feels a little bit more um
flexible how about the stability factor
or the strength it was a six what is it
now um yeah it definitely does feel
stronger the pain is still there but
it's definitely um like I feel a little
bit of pain in the wrist but it's
definitely it feels um a little bit more
stable and a little bit more like it's
bending that bending 90 degrees but yeah
cuz it doesn't usually go as far as this
one so it does Wow yeah cool now let's
let's have you lay back again I want to
just check something okay so now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to come in
here a little bit more into the liver
area right through in here now she did
tell me she did kind of go off for
eating for a little bit and there's a
some insulin resistance up so there's a
little bit of a blood sugar thing so
we'll what I'm going to advise and I'm
going to show you you know one of the
challenges when you do the eating plan
is you add more fat which is hard hard
to digest if there's a gallbladder issue
so I'm going to recommend as a simple
no-brainer is some outside of vinegar
plus are you taking that that is an
acidifier for your stomach that will
release your own bile so when she takes
it before a meal like four before meal
the stomach will release by out it'll
digest so much better it'll take the
pressure off this gallbladder and it'll
make it easier to stick to the program
and improves insulin resistant
and it will help the gallbladder and I
think that pain thing will go away
especially if it's related to the
digestion so so we talked before this
and we are like okay how do we
completely fix this
well once we find what's causing it by
what we're doing now we're testing
something see what gets a fast change
and then we're going to focus on the
gallbladder improving the digestion
that's we want to do like keep your diet
and keep these other thing yeah and then
really help the digestion and that's
going to fully resolve this issue with
the hand because like it affects your
writing you're a teacher and you know
this whole thing so now I'm going to
come a little lower yeah
so now we're right on the heart of it
right - and there says like gall stones
no I think she has the gall stones I
think it's just a sluggish gall bladder
and there's a little duck there that you
drain stuff out that's a little
congested and that comes from eating
poorly sometimes in your past you have a
history of eating poorly change my day
about nine seven years ago but before
that before that it was very high carb
very high crackers and right right
high carb crackers pasta join the club I
was there for 28 years so I know what
you're talking about
so now let's reduce recapping okay go
ahead and do that same same thing again
yeah it feels very similar to this one
to the left one and it still feels a
little bit of pain but it definitely
does feel more stable and less weak and
less and more more able to bend 90
degrees which I have never been able to
bend 90 degrees so but it does I still
feel a little bit of pain okay it's not
as like it's not as easy to do it as
this one but it's definitely
I'm just feeling more stable on it which
is weird I usually feel like I it's
going to give way awesome just sit right
here so the other thing you do for wrist
pain is you work on the opposite side so
we'll take this side and we'll just go
into the muscle to here and when you
press on the if it hurts on the wrist
like it hurts right here then you you
work on the muscles connected to the
wrist but on the opposite side right
through and here and this will be a
little bit sore as you work this out but
that's how you kind of get rid of that
pain component because it's been
compensating you probably support this
side and you put more pressure on this
side as you work out right right right
right absolutely like right here this
thing and I have these weird bumps that
they look like like all over my hands
actually of my arms until my elbow area
so let's look at those bumps in a second
I'm going to just I want to just okay so
now go ahead and just reaches the same
thing let me touch no time is happening
with the pain
hmm the pain is still there it's a
little bit less um but again feeling
stable feeling yeah I mean because I've
never been able to to bend at ninety
degrees so it feels like it's a it's
doing it and it feels stable but there's
a little bit of pain not not much but
there's definitely pain here and here
here maybe because it's stretching
farther than it's been stretched a very
long time so that's the pain here but
the pain that's there is yeah is um it's
it's less but it's it's still there but
it's definitely less and it feels more
stable awesome so so this is because
it's coming from the digestion we just
have to work more on the digestion
because this is the symptom and this is
the cause so just a matter of getting
this once this is better the pain will
probably completely go away probably
have to work a little bit on here but
your problem is not in your wrist and
that's why the physical therapy did no
work because they put radiation in your
wrist okay now so that's cool are you
happy with that yeah okay good so now
show me those bumps okay so you can you
don't if you can see it it's a little
blue but you can feel it yeah yeah
elbows and nobody has been able to tell
me what they're they wanted to have a
biopsied and I was a little bit scared
to do that but my side of that and I
have them all up and you can see my
rushed upon from my liver but I have
them here so here's the thing these are
like little tiny little they're kind of
like little tiny little bumps type
things were growing on the skin anything
with skin is related to vitamin A
deficiency and guess what it takes to
digest vitamin A bile bile yes so by oh
yeah and every year I've been doing it
for the past three years and I was just
this last year when I did it a month ago
they said that I was borderline a
deficient which was the first time
because all the fat soluble vitamins
before were good the DKA but this time I
was a vitamin actually D was borderline
and a was
ding-ding-ding-ding so yeah so skin is
all about the fat soluble vitamins and
you always look to her gallbladder
that's digesting those so she doesn't
have enough bile
so with you probably some upset of
vinegar Plus before the meal and maybe
one gallbladder after to get the fat
side with vitamins in there and the skin
will be really nice so vitamin A
deficiency is create acne bumps little
goose pimple bumps anything with skin is
the vitamin A but most people get enough
on the diet they just can't absorb it
and guess what all the remedies for in
the anti-inflammatory remedies are the
omega-3 fatty acids they're all fat
related so even vitamin D deficiency
will cause pain so again it's a matter
of that digestive system getting that
thing back that's why a lot of our thrit
ik type stuff and pain in general is
liver and it's connected to the
gallbladder so so this is this is what
we'll do we're going to strengthen the
gallbladder you probably do it a little
bit acupressure each day this will
totally be cleared probably take maybe
two weeks at the very most and I think
you're good and then you just have to
keep your eating in just keep really
really standard and then if you tend to
one cheat have some healthy junk food
without this sugar but we want I think
you're going to have to add a little
more fat with the meals with the gall
bladder will help to allow you to go
longer without eating and and because
you cannot fix insulin resistance
without fat so like we have but the
problem is like it might be hard to
digest so don't go crazy just a little
bit and then gradually increase that
you'll go longer without eating
you drop insulin you'll heal the insulin
resistance digestion will do better so
it's a sonico plan yeah absolutely yeah
that makes sense okay awesome well thank
you very much thank you okay
