so I want to create a short video on
cholesterol I want to separate the facts
from the opinions and the myths first of
all that cholesterol has a purpose and I
know that you were taught and I was
taught that cholesterol CL clogs
arteries it it uh makes heart disease
and it's really really bad and we should
avoid it um and eat Cheerios because of
course that oatmeal reduce it but let's
just take it one step further and help
you understand what the heck it is first
of all the first thing you need to know
is that your body makes cholesterol in
fact 75% of all the cholesterol in your
body right now is made by your own body
only 25% comes from the food from your
diet that's interesting so if your
cholesterol was so bad why does your
body make it because obviously it has a
reason here's the purpose of cholesterol
number one it's the raw material that
makes up hormones especially the steroid
hormones which is like
testosterone uh adrenal hormones the sex
hormones all these hormones that you
need to prevent aging are built from
cholesterol so when you start cutting
down cholesterol especially when you get
older um you're going to have a lot of
problems because there's just as many
diseases and problems that occur with a
low cholesterol as with a high
cholesterol which I'm going to get into
in the next section but we need
cholesterol to make hormones especially
as you age number two you need
cholesterol to make bile bile is the
detergent that breaks down the grease
it's a fluid from your liver that helps
you digest without bile you get bloating
right shoulder pain you can't absorb any
the fat fat soluble vitamins like
vitamin A d e and K so we need
cholesterol to make bio and vitamin D
vitamin D is made from cholesterol from
converting the sunlight to through the
skin all the cell membranes are made
from cholesterol your brain is made of
cholesterol the skin is lined with
cholesterol so you need cholesterol okay
so it's not as bad as you think the
problem with cholesterol is when you
have maybe too much uh cholesterol that
goes in versus coming out but it's
overrated back I would say about 20
years ago the normal cholesterol was 225
and they arbitrarily lowered it to 200
put millions of people on cholesterol
lowering drugs I don't know if you knew
that so the other problem is that um now
they're going down to 150 and 100 it's
getting crazy so it's the inability to
kind of they kind of take if if a little
cholesterol might clog an artery they go
all the way to the extreme some other
facts about cholesterol are number one
carbohydrates turn into bad cholesterol
and triglycerides which are blood fats
faster than consuming
cholesterol turns into cholesterol okay
so in other words when you eat eggs and
things like that your body will break
that down with the bile but when you
have too many carbs breads pasta cereal
crackers biscus waffles pancakes you're
going to spike your cholesterol a lot
higher so there's a conversion ratio
sugar and refined carbs and juices and
alcohol and all that
stuff all right next thing is adrenal
stress when you're under stress your
body requires more cholesterol to make
more hormones and a lot of times doctors
when they evaluate they don't find out
in the history when did your cholesterol
start spiking could have been after a a
stressful event your body is just trying
to survive it needs cholesterol to make
these anti-stress
hormones and then lastly the eggs eggs
are loaded with cholesterol but eggs
will increase the good cholesterol okay
and they are loaded with lethin lethin
is the antidote to cholesterol it breaks
down cholesterol so I do I've been doing
four eggs a day every day for the last
20 years 25 years and uh my cholesterol
is about 4,000 no I'm just kidding it's
actually pretty low it's like 180 and um
it's within the normal range and the
other thing I want to mention is that
when your cholesterol is normal don't
let the doctor put you on a cholesterol
lowering medication only treat something
if there's a problem not when you don't
need it because a lot of people are
taking it as a preventative well the
side effect from a lot of these
medications are major they're way more
than potential problems with cholesterol
so you want both ends but sometimes the
doctor puts you in fear and says if you
don't take this you're going to get a
stroke but you just need to you need to
understand all the facts so so in the
next section I want to show you
something even more
interesting okay so now check this out
here's a graph of the framing hin study
which basically all of the risk factors
that you get on your cholesterol reports
are based on this one study and if
you've ever read the study it's
fascinating very a lot of doctors have
never read the study but this is what it
says it says that when you have lower
cholesterol and by the way on the left
side here these are the
deaths um yearly deaths 1 2 3 four and
five okay and that's with people with
low cholesterol and then people with
high cholesterol they're considering 270
High 130 low okay so this is what
happens if you look at the deaths with
low cholesterol it's one out of a th000
at 130 and it's two out of a th000 at
270 okay so this is what they did they
said that's an increase of
100%
risk but notice what they said they they
used the word risk but not rate of
getting heart attacks risk has basically
no legal definition apparently in this
study because it's not really 100%
increase because these are fractions if
you know anything about mathematics
going from 1 1000 to a 21000 is only an
increase of an actual point
1% one tenth of
1% that's the real rate of getting a
heart attack this if the doctor told you
that you have a 0.1% of getting a heart
attack you probably wouldn't take the
medication because it's so rare one
tenth of 1% okay that does not make
sense so um so that's that's
basically how they fudged it they used
the risk factors and you say you're at
100% risk and they have risk one two
like a risk factors of 1 2 3 and four
which I'm still trying to figure out
what it means because it's very complex
and confusing but it's not 100% risk now
the other thing that you need to look at
is that the total deaths from
cholesterol low cholesterol is even
higher than high cholesterol so check
this out other side effects of
cholesterol lowering drugs include a 7%
I'm sorry a 700% increase in Colon
cancers a 12-fold increase in breast
cancer 45% increase in gall stones 145%
increase in
gastritis um an increase rather than
expected decrease in heart and
circulation rated related deaths and
twice as many heart attacks internal
bleeding and severe constipation liver
disease and ulcers of the stomach
intestines anemia taste and smell
disturbances and visual difficulties
dizziness lower white blood cell count
angina heart rhythm problems fitis set
inflammation of the arteries uh cancer
increased death rate um in a 5,000
patient study there was a 36% increase
in death as compared to those taken to
placeo place Placebo increase incident
of impulsive homicidal and suicide
behavior and 175% increase in
appendectomies other than that there's
no other side effects
