hi as you can see had a little situation
here of my arm here I was wrestling
around with my son who's 180 lbs in the
kitchen as my wife is telling me not to
wrestle in the kitchen uh he went back
his head was going to hit the back of
the stove I grabbed him and I braced my
left arm as hard as I could and uh I
just snapped my uh humorous basically
the humorous should be like this mine's
like that so I went to the ER went
through a lot of extreme pain now I have
a lot more sympathy for people are in
severe pain cuz that was the most
excruciating pain I've ever felt in my
life and now I know what my wife feels
like when she said she was pregnant um
but probably not to that uh degree but
anyway I went to the ER um was fractured
so then now I had to wait uh over the
weekend to get surgery which I was not
excited about but I had to get a plate
um on my shoulder that went from here to
here because the rotator cuffs also
detached from the bone and they had to
nail those back somehow so they have
screws and bolts and all sorts of things
in there so on Monday morning I went in
at 8:00 and uh I finally get in got in
to the uh surgery at uh 12 so here's
another interesting experience I hate
waiting in doctor's offices so now I'm
on the other end I'm the guy waiting and
so now I'm never going to let any
patients wait because I've done that in
the past so I'm definitely learning some
interesting experiences here but so what
happened was we went into
surgery and uh
um it was like like a minute later I was
just waking up and I looked at the clock
and it was 3 hours later so it went
really fast so I was happy about that
but as I as my wife took me home um my
blood pressure was really low so I got
home went to bed
and I just could not urinate which is
one of the side effects of the um the
medication I was heavily drugged so
about 3:00 in the morning I had enough I
told my wife take me to the ER right now
because I'm I haven't gone the bathroom
so all that toxic waste in your body so
I went to um back to the hospital waited
an hour and they evaluated me and they
said well we're going to put a full
catheterization in you and I'm like what
is that they go oh don't worry about it
it's just going to be some slight
pressure that was another painful
experience so they took out a liter of
fluid from my body which was pleasurable
they get that out but then they I had
this thing inside me that was even more
uncomfortable because they taped this uh
bag to my leg which I was walking out of
there going this is not going to work so
I had them take it retake it out and I
says just let me go home I just want to
go home so I go home and um gave me all
these drugs to take and they were like
saying yeah you have to take these drugs
but but I remembered there was a um a
remedy that I used um on some patients
in the past called chlorophyll pearls
which is this thing right here
chlorophyll is like liquid U like the
blood of the planet it's like liquid
Sunshine it
detoxifies the things that caused pain
at the nerve endings so as soon as I got
that in my body like the pain just went
right away so I really have not taken
any medication so it's been two days
after the surgery and uh I have no pain
in my arm at all so it's healing fast
I'm doing the ACU pressure on it um so I
will keep you updated on how things go
but uh this was definitely an
interesting experience that I don't want
to experience ever again talk to you
later
