hey it's me again we're going to talk
about hair loss okay so there's a
question from a lady that said I'm
losing my hair and I need some help so
we're going to answer what causes that
um when you're dealing with hair loss um
you have to make sure that you don't
treat the symptom which is hair loss and
that's like directly because you have to
find the cause of it and hair loss is a
symptom so people are taking Biotin and
they're doing shampoos with all these
collagen and things and vitamins
thinking that's going to absorb in the
hair and do something it's it's a joke
it's not going to happen like bad so in
my book um I talk about it in two
different sections because there's
really uh three different situations
going on with hair uh one uh
is actually in chapter 7 uh on the
thyroid body type so the thyroid gland
can cause thin of the hair thinning
brittle hair okay that would be thyroid
but again what causes the thyroid
problem that's what you need to dig in
there I always like to use a question
when did it start that gives the
clue what what happened just before it
started did you get pregnant and then
you lost your hair um did you start a
diet and start losing your hair for
example uh I had someone completely
almost bald and it was after she did a
high prot protein diet and all that
protein was the wrong thing for her body
type and that aggravated her liver you
have to have a good liver to digest all
that protein well anyway one of the
causes of thyroid is a liver problem it
blocked the liver Boom the thyroid can't
convert through the liver and she lost
all her
hair now I've had other people do a
vegetarian diet after watching the
documentary called I think it's called
um for for Over Knives something Forks
Over Knives I think it is um where they
talk about U being a vegetarian well
they cut out all protein and lost all
their hair so and they started breaking
down their teeth so really you want to
adjust the eating plan to your body type
not just do like you can't do a one siiz
fits-all but the point is that what can
cause a thyroid problem usually is um a
liver problem or a lack of bile that
detergent that dissol um that helps you
break down the from your gallbladder and
if you're missing a gallbladder or you
get bloating or you have constipation or
you have a liver problem um that alone
can block the thyroid and cause the
thinning so do you want to work on the
thyroid no you want to support your
liver again ask yourself when did it
start what happened just before now we
have estrogen Spike estrogen can also
block the thyroid from a pregnancy being
on HRT hormone replacement therapy birth
control pills consuming lots of soy all
all those things can Spike
estrogen and block your thyroid okay so
how do you know if you have I estrogen
watch my video on high estrogen um it
the symptoms are heavy period um a
problem with your cycle um heavy weight
on the lower part of your body fibroids
that that would all indicate that you
have too much estrogen so these two two
things can block the thyroid and cross
thing of your hair so that's one
cause the next thing we're talking about
is re seeding hair um or male pattern
baldness now that is a Androgen problem
what is Androgen that's a male hormone
it's a type of testosterone and women
have it too and so when that hormone
goes
higher what happens is it starts to burn
out the hair follicules and it starts to
recede or you start losing hair on the
top part right here men and women now if
this happens if you're getting receding
hair there's three causes to that one is
high levels of
insulin okay and that comes from sugar
or refined carbs now excess insulin can
convert estrogen into androgens and
that's why women that have polycystic
ovarian syndrome U PCOS
um they're they get put them on
Metformin because they have what's
called insulin resistance well that's
because their their insulin has been too
high and causing insulin resistance and
triggering this effect so again this
could cause that all right high levels
of cortisol that's
stress what can that do well think about
it the adrenal
gland
makes three
hormones on the outside of the adrenal
gland cortisol which is a stress hormone
androgens and then another hormone
called aldosterone but we're going to
talk about if this adrenal gland is
overworking like in sustained stress it
will raise all three of these hormones
and so you're going to have high enens
just from a overactive adrenal and that
will cause the receding hair and a lot
of times it'll cause facial hair so the
hair goes from here to here or it's
going to you're going to get acne okay
so increase
insulin cortisol or this other hormone
called GF insulin like growth factor I
don't want to confuse you but let me
just kind of give you the summary of
what what this is this is a hormone from
your liver and um you make it you make
all three of these but a lot of times
when you consume the wrong Foods
specifically soy protein isolates and
diet foods that will Spike the igf and
create high levels of Androgen too so in
other words it's back to the liver again
if something aggravates your liver you
can actually have High androgens and
have receiving hair so again we got to
look at the different things that it
could be could it be thyroid liver so as
you can see so
far we got a lot of liver situations
going on okay but then this last one you
can have patches of your hair come out
in different places that's called
alopecia that's an autoimmune problem
where your body is attacking um your own
hair root so it's like an allergy to
your own hair now that usually comes
from an overactive adrenal from a stress
event so we're back to stress again so
most stress events will cause autoimmune
and that's why a lot of autoimmune
conditions whether it's rheumato
arthritis Ms alopecia whatever is comes
after a loss of a loved one or maybe uh
some type of accident or an injury or
sustained stress so if we really want to
know the cause of stress it's a
combination of
stress sugar eating the wrong things soy
protein
isolates the liver or having too much
estrogen in the diet in the environment
or just having your body pump out too
much because you're you have a fibroid
so I have specific videos on all these I
just wanted to give you a summary on the
general possible causes of hair loss I
hope this helps so if you want just
watch some of these specific videos
through my blog and see if you can find
out now what to do about
it all right so this is Dr Berg signing
off and I'll see you in the next video
