hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the ten side-effects from taking
tums calcium carbonate now in college I
was a guy
popping tums like like candy I had my
mega pack in my pocket and I would
consume these all that long little that
I know of the side effects because I got
a lot of side effects from that I had
severe heartburn and acid reflux okay
here's what you need to know about acid
reflux and heartburn normally the
stomach pH should be between one and
three that's really really really acidic
like battery acid acidic okay when you
lose the pH which means the pH goes up
and you become more alkaline in the
stomach the valve on the top of the
stomach does not close all the way
properly it needs that strong acid to
keep the valve closing so when it
doesn't close guess what's gonna happen
to be acid it's gonna splash up to the
esophagus
okay so heartburn s reflux is actually
not enough acid so because it hurts
you're thinking about too much acid you
take an alkalis or calcium carbonate and
man you feel better for until the next
time you eat so the purpose of this
really strong stomach acid is to help
you digest protein help you absorb
minerals you need an acidic stomach to
absorb minerals if you ever take a look
at in your your faucet on the outside of
your house and sometimes it might
develop those white crystals that's
because the water might be too alkaline
and the calcium builds up if the water
is acidic the calcium gets dissolved in
the water so minerals are dissolved in
an acidic medium okay and then the other
purpose of the stomach beyond just
digesting protein absorbing minerals and
trace minerals is to kill off pathogens
microbes that could be invading the body
okay so look look look what happens you
have the first thing that happens in
digestion is you have this stomach acid
to start breaking things down if that's
not there everything's going to start to
become incomplete undigested so we get
constipation gas which is undigested
protein
burping the same symptom and also you
can have an increased risk of stomach
bugs and infections in the stomach
because you don't have the acid to kill
these microbes so we're allowing these
microbes that go right into the body
number five
heart arrhythmias why because you're not
able to absorb the minerals guess what
an electrolyte is it's a mineral and
then we have kidney stones
abdominal pain increase urination
especially at night dehydration
depression and even anxiety mood
disorders why would that be because
you're not able to break down the
proteins which turn into amino acids
which then be normally they're converted
to neurotransmitters like serotonin gaba
dopamine you don't get those anymore so
we have all sorts of mood disorders so
the solution would be to start consuming
apple cider vinegar okay put some in
some water drink that instead of tums
and just see how you feel it might just
help you thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know
hey that runs
