I would like to discuss the number one
nutrient in boosting your collagen now
it's not vitamin C even though vitamin C
definitely helps collagen but it's
something else now what is collagen
collagen is that protein that connects
everything together out of all the
protein your body about 35% of it is
collagen so it's a connective tissue it
makes up your cartilage your muscles
your tendons your ligaments your eyes
the fascia the stuff that holds all your
muscles together it's below your skin
right on top of your muscles it makes up
your bone even your teeth and it's all
around your skin and I think a lot of
people are trying to boost their
collagen by consuming collagen when in
fact they're missing something else and
this talk is inspired by this book that
I've been reading soil grass and cancer
the link between human and animal health
and the mineral balance in the soil it's
a fascinating book on nutrition talking
about the Rel ship between the animals
that we eat and the animals that eat the
grass that comes from certain soils so
if there's some mineral missing in the
soil it's going to be missing in the
plant which the animals eat and then we
eat the animals so we're going to be
deficient as well and the number one
nutrient that boosts collagen is copper
so copper has a direct effect on making
collagen preventing the loss of collagen
making elastin which is a U A protein
that uh supports the structural
Integrity of collagen and so this Trace
mineral needed in a very small amount is
necessary um in the enzymes that allow
proteins to form and so the copper
enzymes are all about structural
Integrity so if you are deficient in
Copper there are several things that can
happen with your body tissue number one
it can lead to something called swayback
or lordosis now this happens in animals
as well like
but it also happens in humans where you
have this excess lower back curve and
that occurs because you don't have the
structural stability to hold everything
together so things are becoming a little
bit too loose now it can also show up in
your skin as loose skin and as a side
note copper has a lot of additional
benefits
including being able to tolerate the sun
longer now what about hernas well
there's some great research I'll put the
link down below that shows that
relationship between people having
hernas with a significant deficiency in
Copper and that goes for all different
types of hernas whether they're inguinal
or Hiatal because you need the
structural Integrity that copper gives
to hold everything together real nicely
copper supports your joints so if your
joints are weak or they're falling apart
chances are there could be a copper
deficiency and also with muscles if your
muscles are weak you may be deficient in
Copper athletes that have sufficient
copper have more endurance they're more
hydrated they can go longer without
drinking water so just think about
exercised in the involvement of collagen
and connective tissue I mean you're
talking about joints muscles everything
your lower back discs need copper to
make them very very strong your blood
vessels need copper to prevent things
like varicose veins so those are all the
things that connect copper to collagen
but let's talk about some other benefits
of copper if you have an iron deficiency
anemia situation and you don't have
enough copper and you take iron you're
not going to be able to fix your anemia
copper is really necessary with your um
your immune system your white blood
cells as well as the size and shape of
your red blood cells if you're deficient
in Copper you can have a disorder where
you're sweating excessively and copper
is also involved with melanin which
gives you that pigment so if you're
divici in Copper you can gray
prematurely copper also uh supports the
brain and it can help you keep your
balance in the dark or when your eyes
are closed so if you close your eyes and
you feel dizzy or disoriented that could
be a copper deficiency so let's say for
example you're going to take a shower
and you take off your shirt that
momentary lack of light can affect your
equilibrium and your balance having
enough copper can also keep your uric
acid in check copper is necessary to
detoxify fluoride and by the way the
more fluoride you have in your body the
less copper you're going to have and
copper has been known to help warm up
feet and that could be because it helps
you transport iron which is necessary in
hemoglobin all right so now what are the
foods that are high in Copper liver
kidney oysters shellfish shitake
mushrooms and sesame seeds now what are
the common causes of a copper deficiency
well probably the biggest cause is that
we just don't have enough copper in our
soils which then translate to a copper
deficiency in the foods that we eat
you're also going to see a copper
deficiency after gastric bass surgery
you can also get a deficiency if you
take too much ascorbic acid okay which
is part of the vitamin C complex
normally uh copper is supposed to be
part of the vitamin C complex as an
enzyme but if you're taking just a lot
of ascorbic acid out of the normal
complex that can create a deficiency of
copper too now another common cause of a
copper deficiency is by someone taking
too much zinc and so recently A lot of
people have been on the bandwagon to
take a lot of zinc and they probably
been taking zinc out of the the complex
of a lot of trace minerals including
copper and taking too much zinc over a
period of time can throw off your copper
ratios having you be deficient in Copper
so too much zinc can lower copper too
much copper can lower zinc
both zinc and copper work together and
this is why I always recommend that you
get your trace minerals in a complex too
much sugar especially fructose can
create a copper deficiency alcohol can
create a deficiency as well as consuming
too much fiber now I'm not talking about
the fiber from your Foods um that come
with these trace minerals I'm talking
about all these new functional fibers
that people are adding in the so-called
ketofriendly
bars or different foods now since we're
on the topic of collagen and probably a
lot of people are interested in
anti-aging I think the next video for
you to watch would be this one right
here check it out
