hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about bunions what can you do for
bunions okay so we have our lovely uh
demonstrator our guinea pig I mean
patient that we're going to demonstrate
this on so let's have you lay on your
back so we have these these this is a
bunion okay she has two of them
unfortunately so these are uh calcium
deposits and the problem is you never
want to press on them because it's going
to make it worse so what I'm going to
show you to is if they hurt what to do
now normally if she had a bunion just on
one side all we would do is press on the
opposite side and press and stimulate
that and that will get rid of the pain
right here but that's not going to work
because she has it on both sides so the
only thing we can do is work on the
opposite of the bunion which happens to
be right in there okay so when I take my
thumb and you can do this yourself this
is the big toe this bone right here and
we can press on the inside going this
way so so that is going to be a little
sore yeah so she's telling me yes so I'm
pressing right into this point right
through here because that's the opposite
of the bunion and what'll happen it's
going to give her relief and even if we
don't get rid of the bunion if we get
rid of the pain then um who cares if you
have a bunion right so the main thing is
being able to wear shoes and not have it
hurt yes so right in there we're coming
and we're working in the opposite and I
can do both both sides at the same time
so pressing on the inside right through
here and I will say it will be very
tender on the inside right through here
so you got to go light but this is the
point that you press never press on the
bunion it's just on the inside of the
toe inward towards the bunion going this
side right through here so we'll do this
side right
here and we just stimulate it for about
a minute
do this side right
here what's going to happen is when she
stands up she's not going to feel any
more pain
anymore so that's what you do to relieve
the pain from a bunion so go ahead and
try this and put your comments below
I'll see you in the next video
