so welcome everyone we have another
amazing before and after this is Dan and
I wanted to say thanks for doing this
interview and I want to just first find
out a little bit about your past
I saw the before picture did you have a
lot of weight problems early on or
knowledge did you just start gaining
weight at a certain point what what
happened
so for most of my life I was pretty
athletic and played a lot of sports and
activities and I was probably but I was
always maybe at least 10 or 15 pounds
overweight I didn't really know that at
the time so like right now my weight is
about 155 pounds I'm five foot six and a
half I put seven so but you know during
you my college soccer playing career I
was 170 pounds but to say so I never
really was much lower than that but what
happened is after college and I stopped
playing soccer as much and I wasn't
really exercising as much so I would end
up being like 20 pounds higher than that
so I 190 pounds I would fluctuate
actually from my let's say 20s until on
my 37 now so in between that area I
would fluctuate 20 pounds every year and
I would gain 20 pounds and lose 20
pounds in gained 20 pounds in lose 20
pounds until this year when I decided to
I'm not going to do that anymore I'm
going to try to keep it off and I'm
going to figure out how to do that Wow
so when you were in college playing
soccer what type of diet did you have
back then so I didn't have I would say
no guys okay ate whatever I wanted to
eat I didn't really think about it at
all
even growing up I didn't think about
that much I didn't think anything about
different types of calories or anything
like that it was just I ate what I
wanted to eat and that was really it Wow
amazing so what made you want to decide
to say you know what that's it I got to
lose this weight what what was it well I
guess this time I just said to my wife
would always say this isn't healthy for
you you know it's not healthy for you to
gain weight and lose weight and gain
weight and lose weight and my argument
at the time was well it's better to lose
it and just keep it on I guess but she
point was I just needed to figure out
something where I could keep it all and
figure out a lifestyle change that was
the whole big thing instead of just
dieting for a certain amount of time
let's say a few months and then going
off of that which is what I would have
what would happen is January would come
around after the holidays I would feel
disgusting and I would see myself in the
mirror I was 20 pounds to have year
whatever and I do play an adult soccer
league and it was like the season would
start to come up and I want to kind of
be able to run a little bit let's say so
I would watch what I was eating but I
would just watch my calories they never
really know what I was doing I just know
I knew at the time lower my calories and
I had success doing that so I would do
that and then I would lose it but then
it will come back so this time I said to
myself I'm going to figure out how the
body works I want to like research and
not just know it's calories so that's
when I kind of stumbled upon your site
and your YouTube channel and you started
soaking up as much knowledge as I could
about how the body works and what's best
for me and that kind of stuff awesome
so then so you started doing did you a
combination of just ketosis or you do a
10-minute fasting at the same time what
did you do so the plan was I started in
January I was I said 190 pounds this
year and I just started watching my
calories like I usually did and for the
first month
I did the research while I was watching
my calories and I ended up losing around
like 15 pounds or so just doing that and
then I started figuring out more
information from you and I started to
then I got to about 20 pounds and I said
okay now I'm at my 170 pound weight that
I usually get to I want to see how far I
can go here I really want to lose as
much body fat as I can and get in the
best shape of my life so I'm going to
have to use these tips and these tricks
and it's information that I'm learning
so then that's what I did I started to
do the first thing I did was watch the
type of calories that I was eating so I
learned about healthy fats and I learned
about carbohydrates are horrible and I
started to lowering the carbohydrates
and increase the fats and try to have
enough protein and that kind of stuff
that was like my phase - I'll say and
then phase 3 was in a minute fasting I
got informational and a minute fast
and I was probably at that time about 23
or so pounds down to where I wanted to
be so I said let me do this in a minute
fast and even though this is working for
me with watching my calories and having
healthy calories by me doing a minute
fasting and try it and that's when I was
able to lose like the last 10 pounds
which is always the hardest for me I
really tried to push it I really
couldn't do it until I did a minute
fasting which was my stage 3 I'm going
to call that and now I'm kind of like in
almost a stage 4 or 5 all the way back
out stage 4 for me is like exercise with
in a minute fasting I was always doing
some type of exercise during this time I
would like work out with weights three
times a week but nothing crazy just like
an hour in the gym and then I would also
do running but the biggest thing for me
was I did running during my fasting
window in the morning so I know some
people have a problem with that and at
first I thought I couldn't do that I was
always under the impression since my
soccer days I need to have carbohydrates
for the soccer game tomorrow and I got
to make sure I'm all ready to go for
this and had this energy and I didn't
understand the body and so my first
couple of runs I was shocked so let's
see that I performed better than I did
when I was eating breakfast and then
running let's just say this is that a
piece of false data like people think
they have to have Gatorade or glucose
because they're going to crash or
whatever it is not sure that the biggest
that's the biggest thing and especially
now I'm trying to take this information
with my own children I have three kids
seven eight and nine and their diets are
I would say not as good as they could be
and so like you know they play sports
and I'm like we don't need that Gatorade
you know it's not going to help you it's
just a free let's just have some water
especially kids will chug the whole
thing again right before the game even
starts and it's just not good it's bad
so you so here you did that and then you
the intimate of fasting what pattern are
you using now so what I did in the
beginning is I'm kind of doing the same
I did 12 and I did 16 and 8 so I would
do 16 hours faster than my window would
be like 12 to 8 eating window eating
window let's just say and
sometimes I mean it's not a waste 12-day
bill can be I liked it you can flex flex
it wherever you need that's what I love
that so if I need to eat lunch or left
on the thirty then I would stop eating
earlier or something a lot of times I
would try to stop eating at 6 o'clock at
night if I could I figured let me push
my fasting window as long as I could if
I could do it if it fit in to the
schedule and so that's what I would do a
lot of times I would only do 11:30 at
least sorry 11:30 and I would stop
eating at 6:00 what to say so really it
wasn't 68 then I guess 80 and 6 you know
mm-hmm you go to dinner a lot or do you
pretty much eat at home well there is
one of the thing I really didn't talk
about that I do which I kind of feel a
little bad that I do but I do have
during this time I have cheat days and
especially in the beginning and in fact
the beginning of my weight loss journey
was really all mental I know I was doing
calories but now that I'm in a different
state now that a lot of times I feel
like I'm in ketosis and I feel like
especially now I'm not I really have
cravings for sugar but in the beginning
when I was just doing calories I would
still want chocolate chip cookies and I
would still want brownies and still want
the Rideau is not kind of stuff and so
what I would do was I would have six
healthy eating days and on the seventh
day I would end up having two livid
treats or sweets or whatever it was or
if we went out to dinner I try to make
that day fall on that day oh my cheat
day I would call it a river it was or if
we were out socially and we were having
a couple drinks of alcohol or something
like that so that's kind of how I would
do it in the beginning now I don't even
really feel like I need to do that it
just happens when we have parties in the
summer or barbecues and you know then I
feel like I can have a little bit more
on those days yeah interesting and so
like your first meal what time is that
like 11 or 12 or yeah right now I
usually eat around 11 o'clock or 11:30
and I usually have spinach I have a big
fish salad like in the beginning when
you start talking to videos and I was
and you were talking about how much you
ate in terms of the greens and I was
like oh my god that money that's a lot I
don't know if I can eat all that and now
I eat 7 cups of spinach salad for lunch
with chicken
I go to Surrey chicken I'll do like 3/4
of a breast of chicken and I'll do or
I'll do like tuna in there or some type
of protein with cheese and that's really
what I have and if I need to have an
apple I will but when I'm really
watching it my carbs I won't have the
Apple
it depends upon trying to I get at this
point I'm trying to stick between 50 and
100 carbs and when I'm really watching
it because I came back from vacation and
I was like you know I didn't do great on
vacation so I was like sticking to 50
cars for these last let's say 10 or 11
days and I came back I won't have the
piece of fruit for lunch
so then okay so then you do your first
meal and then the second meal do you eat
a similar thing then I depend
I usually I'll have eggs eggs were like
a huge staple for me during this whole
thing even when I was just watching
calories and I'll have a full egg
omelette is my favorite thing to have
it's so quick and easy to make a four
egg omelette with cheese I'm going to
put salsa on there or some hot sauce or
something and that's really what I'll
eat for dinner
I do have if I feel like I need it I
tried the snack in between because I'm
trying to have my insulin get raised at
all if possible I will have pistachios
or some type of nut that I that I have
available at the time so that's Mike
like snack kind of thing anon right so
you basically have a six pack AB right
now right oh yeah absolutely I never I
never really had six pack ads let's just
say even when I 170 pounds soccer weight
I didn't really it wasn't defined let's
just say in terms of that you can kind
of see the outside but you never could
see the inside now you can definitely
see the whole thing especially if I like
flex a little bit that's very prominent
and you know that definitely feels good
I'm proud that I'll have to worry about
wearing a swim shirt when I go with my
kids to the pool or something which I
would when I was 180 pounds or hung 90
pounds if I were embarrassed in that way
but besides just looking better
I just feel a hundred percent better
yeah it's hard to tell how you feel
really when you're 180 pounds you know
you don't feel good but if I could
compare somehow get the feeling trapped
in a bottle for both feelings at the
same time it's so much better now than
it ranked yeah oh yeah and then as
you're here why
now okay with that now she's not telling
you to lose any more weight or she good
with that she's good she's good with it
she has always always been pretty
fitting herself and I like she runs and
she watches what she eats she eating but
the only thing with this is she's also
concerned because I am obsessed with
things sometimes feel like when I latch
on to something right I'm going to do it
do it do it do it do it so she is just
skeptical that am I going to relapse am
I going to you know not stick with this
but the biggest challenge for me was I
was on vacation in Disneyworld with my
family two weeks ago and I was having
tons of cheat days and I said when I get
back I am NOT going to do what I used to
do on vacation which is just say I
forget it for the summer I'm going right
back to it
and I did and for the last I gained this
is actually a little embarrassing but it
was kind of an experiment for me I
wanted to see what would happen you know
what would my body do and so on vacation
I had 12 vacation days which is a pretty
significant vacation and I ate horribly
and I gained about 14 pounds and I said
I want to see what happens how long it's
going to take any losses wait so now
since I've been back I lost 12 of those
14 pounds by doing teeth I being in
ketosis and watching everything I was
eating very strict and I have about two
pounds to go and it's been 10 days since
I've been back Wow I think that's a good
point because you the whole goal is to
get your body in a state where you have
enough health reserve that you can go
off the program you know what's going to
happen you know how to get back you're
not in a danger State where I don't know
what to do it's not working and that's
that's you know like it's not about just
like always have to avoid this little
thing and that too but the point is like
you know what to do now you're not in a
mystery about it and then also what
about your performance now playing
soccer like how is you feel like you're
faster or you more performance with
anything with that
yeah well I'm definitely when I wasn't
watching what I was eating I was
definitely more sluggish I was
definitely faster obviously because I'm
not care
thirty pounds last 35 pounds less than I
was before so which I can hard to fathom
that to that I was 30 pounds heavier I
couldn't imagine carrying 30 pounds now
and trying to run around soccer field
but I did you know it's amazing that's
amazing to me actually that a lot of
people are overweight is they need more
weight need to be and they are still
able to do so many things your body is
so strong but it will be so much
stronger if they lost that weight you
know so there's definitely a big
performance difference yes and I can't
it's just amazing the professional
athletes that are especially like even
in I did college wrestling the stuff
that we would eat is crazy I mean it's
just like insane so I mean I don't know
what you soccer players eat but it's
probably just the same as everyone else
right yeah well especially in college no
one was paying attention nutrition you
know back in 2000 and whatever it was it
you know or 19 actually a lot older than
that so no one was paying attention to
those things we were just we just we
actually thought have a big pasta dinner
we would have a whole group together the
team would get together and like before
we have a big pasta dinner with garlic
bread and pasta more loading up on our
car says tomorrow that's going to help
us perform obviously we didn't know what
we were doing yeah and I think that
there are tons of people that don't know
what they're doing and they're just
going with old information that wasn't
it's not true and this is the biggest
thing now so I'm trying to tell people
that our family and friends without
protruding into their life I'm not
trying to tell them what to do but I
like to also give them advice so like on
Facebook I have a little channel a
friend but I will tell them information
that I learned basically from you I'm
kind of turnkey in this information to
them and just saying what works for me
and you should think about this it can
help you because a lot of people don't
understand about fat doesn't make you
fat and carbohydrates are horrible they
just don't understand that at all
yeah that's the challenge it's like they
have to kind of reach for some help that
you you just basically invalidate
everything that they think is right and
so I always like really I don't I never
tell people what to do I always tell
them why I need to do it the explanation
so they can
have some reality on that but yeah it's
a challenge to family and friends
I really appreciated your channel by the
way just wanted to say thank you again
because I am kind of that kind of person
I want to know why am I doing this
what's the reason how does it work
that's just how my brain works
especially when I'm going to commit to
something and so I was able to learn
about insulin and learn about potassium
and how much I need and how am I going
to get it from this and that and I'm not
going to eat 25 bananas it's not going
to work and you know and all those kind
of things
and I just learned the most from from
your channel and I'm constantly learning
more and more and just trying to turn
key like I said that information to
people just to let them know because I
just feel like I say a lot people don't
know and I get sad now now that I'm
paying attention I feel like I've been a
walk-in here you know I'm paying
attention and just driving my car I see
people and I'm thinking to myself I just
wish that you could know this
information it would help you so much
without pulling over to the side of the
road and waving them down or anything I
am the same thing I was on a trip
recently and I'm like I have to withhold
myself because you just want to go
listen you could I could help them solve
it so fast but they have to really reach
for help in the airport so I'm like oh
my gosh if I could just tell this person
I know it's a situation but that's
awesome you did a really good job Dan
and I appreciate the interview it's a
it's amazing I mean that before and
after is incredible so yeah I would say
one of the last things I think
potentially we talked about was the
exercise that I did in the morning and
that was like to me it was like the most
important part because this is how I
felt in my mind I don't even know if
it's exactly correct but the information
I got from you I felt that if I woke up
in the morning so I sucked it up and I
got up an hour early and I ran two and a
half miles I didn't go crazy just two
and a half miles it took it takes like
20 minutes and I felt like I was I was
had plenty of energy and when I did that
I felt better about myself I also felt
that I was in my mind I had stored like
glucose and glycogen in my muscles but I
wanted to get through in order to get to
the fact that's what I felt like it was
happening so I felt like if I went out
and did that run I would maybe jumpstart
that even more by getting through that
and using the energy to my muscles
during that time and
till I would be done doing my run let's
just say seven o'clock or 6:30 and then
I wouldn't eat again for you know four
hours or so till 11:30 and I really felt
I'm not sure if is even true but that's
when my body was really burning the fat
from after I ran until I ate at 11:30 or
something like that well then that's
that is the best thing to do I think
apparently you're able to do that so you
must not have your your insulin you
don't probably have some aberration with
your insulin right now must be working
really good to be able to do that most
people they haven't repaired it to the
degree that they could do that just to
be able to switch over to fat-burning
because they'll drop their glycogen get
dizzy and they start having all these
hypoglycemic effects so yeah that is the
best way to do it if you can do it so
that means that you're obviously above
average health-wise you don't have that
dysfunction of insulin so that's I think
you're doing a great job that's exactly
what you need to do tap out the glycogen
go right to the fat burning now I'm
going to keep riding the wave like you
said just keep riding as long as I can
and keep burning as much as I can and
see how how much I can get to at this
point like I'm just going to show my
wife and everyone else that I'm going to
this is missing my lifestyle this isn't
just I did this for four or five months
wherever it was you know which it did
only take me it took me 20 weeks to get
down to the initial weight that I was in
the before-and-after picture which was
156 pounds I ended up being 154 pounds
so that's kind of where I want to be
hundred fifty-four pounds and so now I'm
just figuring out ways to maintain and
be able to live life socially without
having to say I like that I feel like
now I don't have to turn down something
if somebody offers it to me even though
I could if I want to but I could just
have it and that's not going to kill me
as those posed before I would have it
and then I'd have like five more or
something and I have I'd say well I had
a bad day today I'm going to have a bad
day tomorrow it doesn't matter and I
wouldn't go back onto it but now I feel
like even if I have a tough cheat day
let's say on the weekend we go to a
party I know that I can go right back on
it the next day and I remember what I
feel like and I remember what I feel
like on a Saturday night after I have
all that disgusting stuff because I
don't feel good I actually feel sluggish
and when I was in Disneyworld we after
we ate breakfast I like a 20-minute I've
you down like this like tired you know
on the monorail barely making it over to
the Magic Kingdom I would just like
dying there thinking up this horrible
what am i doing I think that was a good
demonstration to be able to just go off
just so you really know for sure yeah
okay so this isn't going to work long
term right yeah exactly yeah and you're
we're sounds like your awareness is just
very high right now it's like you know
exactly what's going on so you're not
like clueless about you know most people
with what's going on I don't have to use
the app like I used to used a calorie
tracker some type of an app and at this
point obviously now that done so much I
don't really feel like I need to do that
you like you should have intuitions
there I know that I can have this I can
know I can have that and where it will
make me feel and how it will make me
feel afterwards yeah you're right I'm
there now anything awesome well thank
you so much Stan I appreciate the
interview sure I appreciate your time
and thanks for putting those videos out
there and please keep putting as much as
you can as many videos as you possibly
can out there will be great can I ask
you a question give like a minute for
that I have a question about I'm not
sure if you know the answer or not but I
have a question about cancer actually
and I have read a few things about how
ketosis can help to not fuel cancer
cells and maybe cancer cells aren't off
of sugar they aren't up glucose maybe
certain kinds I'm not really sure you
know anything about that
yeah well the two things number one
cancer is such a big business now that
you're not going to find a lot of
studies out there because no one's going
to pay for the funding on it
and it would just turn the whole apple
cart upside down so but I do know that
when they do PET scans they basically
monitor what part of your body has the
fastest metabolism of glucose which is
basically the cancer loves sugar there's
certain treatments right now call like
insulin potentiation therapy where
they'll inject you with insulin with a
little bit of chemo and so they they
raise the they drop your sugar and
apparently they cause the cancer to eat
up all this
the sugar which is filled with chemo or
whatever and then they die but the point
is that yeah you're going to be much
safer if you what you're doing now to
prevent cancer and cancer could also
come from many different things like a
lot of herbicides pesticides one of the
big things now that's going up not
non-hodgkins lymphoma is connected to
glyphosate which is another GMO food so
yeah you can do them in a fasting you
can do ketogenic but you got to make
sure the quality food is non-gmo organic
is all possible wild-caught grass-fed
that type of thing and then you're much
more bulletproof but so yeah I think
sugar has a huge impact on feeding it
and then if you if you'd a lot of
cruciferous foods you also can starve
off tumors and benign tumors and even
cancer as well so they're all
anti-cancer they have answer key
anti-cancer properties I do I know I
have you just for one more minute for a
personal question can I get you all
right lymph nodes being inflamed or
something or you know I have a few that
are a little bit I think I'm curious if
they've always been that way and now
that I've lost weight I can feel them
and they just have bigger you know what
I mean it's like in like a groin area
I'm just curious if no they can always
be like that yeah you you you have a lot
of lymph nodes in your neck in the groin
in different areas that basically are
and when you lose weight you're going to
feel them more and they're like what the
heck is this I didn't feel this before
right it's really people kind of like
they kind of freak out about it
sometimes I wouldn't worry about that
unless you find it's getting bigger and
it's really really tender
you have lymph nodes all over the place
and they're just sitting there they're
basically helping your immune system and
they probably might even swell up if you
eat more sugar but if they're staying
the same size I would not worry about
them at all they're not a problem
they're part of a natural filtering
process with with the white blood cell
and your immune
all right thank you I really appreciate
it
well thank you thank you for your time
and thank you for doing this I really
appreciate it I'm going to keep putting
taking your information and giving it
out there to like my Facebook people all
my little healthier us page and Cal than
everything I can tell them and hopefully
people gravitate to it without getting
having to be pushed sometimes you got to
push a couple of my friends towards it
but yeah I think that's great spread the
word and let's help those people that
want help how about that sounds good
okay thanks Dan hi thanks so much sure
