hey Dr Berg here in this short video I
want to talk about my health coach
training um because you may want to
become a health coach this course um can
be spread out over a period of time if
you do it a little bit each night it'll
take you eight weeks if you do it more
intensely you can get it done in a whole
week but it's all online and this is
what's in the course the course is the
balance of the videos and practical so
you'll be doing um little practical
exercises until you complete the entire
checklist of information so you're going
to be learning about all the eating
plans how to put people on the right
eating plan for their body type you're
going to learn about the rules of eating
all the things the dos and the don'ts I
really try to keep it as simple but
there's there's some stuff that you need
to know uh we'll talk about the myths
the missing information that people need
to know the most important information
that people need to know you'll learn
about the fat burning foods in
relationship to eating based on hormonal
um uh health so you'll learn about the
fat breing foods and then the fat making
hormones and what foods trigger each one
uh because this is very cool because
most people are focused on just calories
uh or balancing your proteins
carbohydrates and fats but not the
relationship between how food interacts
with hormones okay then you're going to
learn about ACU pressure there's uh 12
videos I'm going to be uploading some
more on there and it shows you how to
get someone to do it on themselves
there's one also on sinus discomfort
there's one on the um uh menstrual
discomfort and sleep and general pain
and general stress so unless you're a
massage therapist a chiropractor or
another practitioner that you're
licensed to do it you can only teach
people how to do it on themselves versus
doing it on them okay so that's
acupressure exercise technology you're
going to learn exercise technology which
is very very very powerful because a lot
of T if you have a person that's
exercising they're not seeing much
results you can go in there and dissect
why they're not getting results and fix
it so that way their progress is so much
better so this is going to be a um
amazing technology just in itself then
the the most valuable thing of of this
whole Health coaching is my method
method of evaluation how to take a
symptom
as a clue pull the string and find out a
root cause so you're going to be looking
at a person's energy level and their
sleep their digestion their pain their
inflammation their Cravings uh their
menstrual cycle and be able to take that
dig deep find out the real reason why
they can't lose weight or can't get
healthy uh you'll understand the
mechanisms like why a certain person has
a certain symptom and what what that
means so it's like reading your body so
that's very very cool stuff um then
you're going to learn how to coach
someone what is the best way to coach
them and coaching is you're taking some
Advanced information and you're
leveraging it to get an advantage over a
problem you're trying to solve an
obstacle and you're using certain
strategies to overcome those obstacles
that's how you coach someone so I use a
lot of things to leverage it so we're
using more wisdom than just you know
like hey just keep trying harder you
know we don't want to do that and then I
show you how to educate someone um so
they retain the information and they
really get it and they have a light bulb
go off so we're going to show you how to
do that as well uh I'll show you some
tips on promoting yourself um and then
also it includes um the fat burning quiz
for one year as well as the health
coaching portal for one year two and
that has all the two tools so you can
interact with your people and get their
eating plan back and just dice sected
and tell them exactly what to do so it's
a great training program I really just
want to welcome you to our health
coaching program because we need more
health
coaches this course will help people
basically learn how to help people
better so I will uh look forward to
seeing you enroll and um and your
success thank you very much
