today I'm going to talk about
anxiety and stress and I'm going to use
one of my favorite books a dictionary
this is it right here look at this
Oxford Advanced Learners English to
Chinese dictionary 7eventh Edition I
have like five of these now why do I
have this is this about me learning
Chinese no no no I love words and you
can discover all sorts of things about
the deriv of words and the meanings of
words now what's cool about this
dictionary is that it's for Chinese
students learning English so the
definitions are really good they're very
simple versus other dictionaries that
you have to you know literally look up
words within definitions and then more
words within those definitions so this
is a really good dictionary just to give
you the meaning of the word and so what
we want to do today is kind of take you
through various definitions of words
okay okay in relationship to anxiety and
stress and I'm going to show you
something that's really interesting
about this because we can learn a lot
about this the first word we're going to
look up is this definition of anxiety
what does anxiety mean okay anxiety is
the state of feeling nervous or worried
about something bad is going to happen
so basically anxiety is you're worried
about something we better look up the
word worry okay worry to keep thinking
about unpleasant things that might
happen or about problems that you have
so when you're worrying you're really
thinking about things that may or may
not happen and usually you're not
worried about good things they're
unpleasant things and they're usually
related to a problem so when you're in
this anxiety state you are thinking
about if something's going to happen or
maybe not happen usually related to
something unpleasant about some problem
so let's just look at this word thinking
for a moment to use your mind to
consider something to form connected
ideas to try to solve problems so the
one that actually fits this is to solve
problems right so what a person is
really doing when they have anxiety and
they're worrying is they're thinking
about problems okay problem a thing that
is difficult to deal with or
to understand so in theory the more you
understand about something the less of a
problem it is right especially as this
relates to worrying because when you're
worrying you probably are left
without understanding about something
I'll give you an example let's say
someone calls you up and leaves a
message and you listen to the message
and it says call me back I have some bad
news but you can't get a hold of them
what's going to happen all night you're
going to be worrying about something
you're going to be thinking about this
problem because you don't understand it
so without understanding the problem
continues on and on and on okay there's
a second definition a question that can
be answered by using logical thought or
mathematics so of course this relates to
probably a a math problem but also it
can relate to what you're doing when
you're thinking about problems you're
trying to solve them right and they're
your mind and you're going through them
and try to come up with a solution all
right so let's look up this word
speculation what does it say here the
act of forming opinions about what has
happened or what might happen without
knowing all the facts the news is famous
for this right thousands of people might
die from the storm coming in well that's
not really the facts that's just an
opinion about something right the storm
is coming in but we don't know if a
thousand people are going to die but
that's a great way to give you a problem
and of course the news does it to get
attention because um facts don't really
sell but speculation does there's
certain things that I can control and
there's certain things that I can't but
i' like to solve problems based on
actual facts right because there's
another thing that the news gives people
that word is called sensationalism okay
a way of getting people's interest by
using shocking words or by presenting
facts and events as worse or more
shocking than they really are and of
course they do it because it sells and
it can actually Rob your attention and
so when you read headlines what do you
open up the ones that are most shocking
and then of course we have the last word
which is conjecture conjecture is
opinions not based on knowledge you're
basically just guessing a lot of times
they're worrying about stuff that is
just completely utterly manufactured and
made up a large percentage of it is
based on opinion speculation
exaggeration when you uh have perceived
threat
danger negativity problems guess what
happens to your drenal glands you start
pumping out adrenaline and cortisol what
do you think that does to your immune
system you're going to age prematurely
the reason I'm doing this video is just
to bring up some interesting
observations on how much time an average
person spends worrying about things that
maybe they shouldn't be worrying about
just try to get more facts about the
thing to get more understanding about
something and take vitamin B1 and that
can greatly help your physical body and
pull you out of this um nervous tension
taking adaptogens like ashwag gandha is
something that is really helpful because
if you think about it what do adaptogens
actually do they strengthen your ability
to adapt to stress go for long walks
continue to exercise get out in nature
and limit the amount of exposure that
you have to speculation to the news in
general now I did another interesting
video on this that I think relates to it
and I put that up right here I think
you'll enjoy
it
