see so we good so we're going to get
started so so I just want to welcome you
I want to thank you for taking uh this
Skype call we're going to do a little
interview and um um manoso I think I got
it close right great yeah so you're
you're from Poland and uh uh I you sent
me your before and after transformation
literally incredible incredible before
and after um tell me have you ever
struggled with your weight at some point
in your life
yes I have uh I was also I was always uh
fat fatty fat fatty guy uh I um I'm an
endomorph type of of body you know I
simply build my muscles and body wave
but I have a lot of difficult
difficulties to to burn excess uh body
uh fat tissue uh so uh it's very hard to
to burn excess uh fat
okay and and what what um what do you
feel um was the successful combination
of things that you did that started
making a
change uh at the beginning uh I decided
to uh to remove junk food and other
sweets from my
diet uh then uh and also I Rec decided
to uh reduce
intake of carbohydrates it's very vital
part of my cutting uh process and then
and then you started seeing changes and
then um how much weight did you lose um
compared to then and to
now uh so uh my uh I was losing fat for
uh two years uh I started in
2016 and I ended in uh 2 no I started in
2013 and uh in 2016 I ended okay and I
lost 16 kilog so at the beginning I had
uh 96 kilog and at the end uh I had 78
wow and it looks like your body fat is
pretty good now too
right yes I have relatively low uh uh
body fat now are you right now are you
doing intermittent
fasting uh nowadays right yes I perform
uh that type of of diet it's very uh
good for me I don't feel any hunger for
even 24
hours uh uh when I wake up I go to my
work uh and then at approximately uh 4:
or 5 p.m. I take my first uh meal wow I
eat my first meal but it's very huge and
uh there is a lot of fat so uh I don't
want to eat anymore uh that day so just
one meal is enough for me this is
amazing so tell me what do you eat in
that
meal uh I'm doing my best to uh to
provide as many proteins uh as I can uh
to ensure uh at least
uh uh two grams per each uh kilogram of
my body give me an example how big of uh
like let's say you get a piece of meat
how big would that be how many
ounces uh ounces it's very difficult
unit for
European we count it in grams okay how
many
grams uh for example I eat uh four or
five eggs and uh
about uh more more than 200 grams of of
turkey uh and uh there are there is also
huge uh huge uh quantity huge uh portion
of ve vegetables veggies uh because I
saw on your videos that it's very vital
very important part of our diet uh to
maintain proper intake of potassium and
other uh
trise minerals so uh
I and also uh to maintain to to ensure
proper intake of fat I add uh some boot
butter or coco coconut oil coconut oil
yes right uh and I don't feel hunger
after such huge meal it's great for me
so I can uh in I can perform intermitted
fasting for next uh even 24 hours or 23
incl now did you you had to uh slowly
transition to that like you you didn't
get there overnight it took a while to
get it so you can have one meal a
day I didn't catch so it did you have to
start like three meals a day and then
two meals a day and then one meal a day
right yes at the beginning uh I ate uh
three meals per day as most as as common
guy U uh but I didn't uh need that I I
ate because uh I thought I should do it
uh I didn't feel uh um you know hunger
Hunger uh so I one day I I thought if I
don't uh feel hunger why
why I eat so so much and so frequent so
I decided to uh to to expand uh this
break time break between
meals and finally I can even uh eat once
or two two times per day
occasionally wow I don't suffer and and
troubles I feel great so so let's talk
about that uh you um you work out I
could see because you're about you work
out every single
day uh no not so frequent uh I work out
uh two or three times per week uh and uh
I intake carbohydrates around my workout
uh I don't I'm not sure uh if I'm doing
if I do it U if I'm right with this but
uh uh because I I heard that guy who uh
who perform uh strength training should
should after that take some
carbohydrates to uh to refill uh
glycogen in muscles right for better
recovery so uh so I did so so I
following this way but I'm not sure if
I'm right this yeah you might want to
try something um try something new just
to to see how you do if you this this
Indo this uh thought that you need
carbohydrates after you work out has to
do with uh the muscle uh using glycogen
so you have to replenish it right but um
the way you're doing it right now one
meal a day your system has adapted that
you
can uh run
on uh basically triglycerides or fat you
could run your body in fat after the
work out you can also your liver makes
glycogen or makes glucose that turns in
the glycogen so you're making your own
and you don't and this is kind of like a
confusion and you just have to
experiment to know for sure but you um
you really don't need any type of
carbohydrate um after the workout
because your body can make it out of
your own fat out of your own protein it
can make the glycogen um it seemed like
you would need but there's a lot of
bodybuilders right now that um don't do
the carb now your body um I saw the
before and after is very very cut it's
very uh you're a guy so it's probably
your metabolism is pretty good right now
where you could probably get away with
some carbs but just try to experiment
and not do the carbs over a period of
maybe two to three weeks and just see
how you do just because um it's it's
something that people are taught to do
but they don't necessarily need it and
it could slow a lot of people down down
um but the question that I had for you
is this um are you bodybuilding right
now or are you
competing uh no I don't I'm not u i just
uh perform uh strength training uh just
for my pleasure uh because uh I have
been uh working uh out uh for many years
but uh I also I I always uh
I was Al always trying to to gain
muscles uh but uh few years ago I
decided to to improve my my body shape
so I decided to uh to burn some uh some
fat to reveal uh build muscles uh but uh
I uh it turned it out that it's very
very difficult in my uh for my body type
as a endomorph
uh I have low metabolism rate uh so I
need just 2,000 of kilo calories per day
uh and my colleagues for example need
much more than me I don't know why if I
I think that if I ate uh more I would uh
gain body weight uh very easily well
that that uh you know people are
probably um I think the the reason why
people are are scared to do intermittent
fasting is because they think they're
going to lose all their muscle but
that's not happening you're doing one
meal a day and your muscle doesn't seem
like you're getting weak it doesn't seem
like you're losing muscle is that
correct uh yes you are right I I I
haven't noticed
uh
and losses my muscles uh so uh my
strength is at the same level uh when I
for example PCH press at the gym or or
take uh squats or uh you know Dead uh
dead lift
exercise with uh with waves uh so I
haven't an I haven't noticed
any uh any uh strength uh
decrease decrease decrease right I
couldn't find the correct word yeah
because one of the things with
intermittent fasting you're spiking um
growth hormone growth hormone uh
preserves muscle uh loss so you're not
going to lose muscle fast it's like
people think they're starving but you're
not starving I mean you're before and
after is incredible um so anyway I I I
really appreciate you doing this
interview I wanted to just get to meet
you and talk to you in person because
we've been emailing back and forth and
uh I think this will give people a lot
of hope that they could do a similar
thing and then what I want to do uh
maybe in a month or so is do a post
video and just to see how you do without
having to do any carbs with your
workouts and you can let me know how you
do all right I will try uh this uh I
will avoid at all cost carbohydrates
around my workout uh both before and
after and I will uh uh I will see uh how
I will feel yeah uh so uh so I will uh
practice this and we'll let you know how
it works great one last thing um you may
want
to take uh some type of potassium
supplement before you work out like an
electrolyte
um to just to keep your strength up on
those on those days that you really work
out hard if your workout is not close to
the meal an electrolyte drink probably
would help you just as a little side
note uh okay I will try try it I will
try it Eric one one more question for
you the ctin trigger insulin or not do
you know no it doesn't trigger insulin
it actually improves recovery it uh it
works with growth hormone and uh I did a
video on I just didn't release it yet
but I do recommend creatine for those
people that want to speed up recovery to
enhance their uh muscle mass a a little
bit more so I agree that's a good thing
to to do because uh after I before I go
to my work I I drink apple Cedar vinegar
uh with
stevia uh and with Citron juice and ctin
powder and I I wondered uh if uh I
drinking my insulin or not no no you're
doing fine perfect oh so perfect glad
yes
awesome well thank you so much for doing
this interview and uh I really
appreciate it and it's amazing before
and after so thank you you're welcome
thank it's very nice to hear it from
such person like you oh I appreciate it
thank you okay thank you very much all
right we'll talk to you soon
