hi guys in this video I'm gonna create a
short video on something called jaundice
okay what is it it's really a symptom of
something being backed up in the blood
okay and that something is called
bilirubin now what is bilirubin
bilirubin is a byproduct of hemoglobin
okay now what is hemoglobin right well
in the blood you have different parts
you have the protein part the iron part
the protein part of the red blood cell
contains iron collectively that's called
hemoglobin okay when that breaks down
because your body is constantly
recycling in the liver this blood so
it's recycling it and the byproduct of
that recycling thing that your body's
trying to get rid of and get rid of
through the waste is called bilirubin if
this isn't recycled properly if it backs
up in the blood and comes out through
the skin that's what jaundice is so it
turns yellow the skin turns yellow maybe
slightly green the whites of the eyes
turn yellow you might have itchy nasir
Joran becomes darker as well your stool
might become lighter so those are all
symptoms of the liver not detoxifying
this properly now it could also be the
gallbladder could be involved where it's
backing up and everything is backing up
to the liver and of course the person
does get itchiness in the bottom of the
feet sometimes in the palm of the hands
but the instead of everything getting
recycled it just backs up so the
underlying cause could be a fatty liver
it could be an inflamed liver like
hepatitis it could also be a liver that
is filled with scar tissue called
cirrhosis or the gall bladder is the
problem and everything's kind of backing
up so either the person is drinking too
much alcohol they're eating poorly and
then you have drugs especially the
antipsychotic drugs can create this as
well all right now what to do about this
I put some links down below thanks for
watching hi guys hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
