hey guys in this video we're going to
show you to make a really simple recipe
whip cream no sugar
it's pretty good isn't it mm-hmm it's
more than woop cream it's just whipped
cream but it's yummy yeah let's show you
how so this is what it looks like just
put it in the fridge it's a great snack
let's go ahead and try it out see if
it's any good it's good mmm
so you can do this after a meal just a
little bit after meal a couple teaspoons
great snack but don't snack in between
meals just with the meal but I like the
caramel instead of the vanilla you don't
you like the vanilla or or just nothing
at all right just have the sweetener
which is the xylitol you're going to
have to grind it into real small little
particles because it comes in bigger
chunks okay but go ahead and try this
and put your comments below and let me
know how you liked it yummy that's
really good you did good thank you
testing one two
good right okay okay hey guys in this
video hey guys I wanted to show you
exactly how to make okay hey guys in
this video we're to show you they're
making a really amazing hey guys thank
you so much for watching I really
appreciate it please click the share
button below and I will see you in the
next video
