hi guys I recently had a question what
is the difference between synthetic B1
and natural B1 okay well first of all B1
is so important when you do keto and in
minute fasting um B1 has the power to
protect uh your arteries from the damage
of high sugar and high insulin it can
protect the milein sheath in the nervous
system from the dangers of high sugar
and high insulin and so when you're
deficient in B1 you get all sorts of
problems inside the artery which can
build up to a clot you get all sorts of
damage within the nervous system which
leads to peripheral neuropathies B1 is
amazing to pull stress out of the body
and to make you feel less stressful um
but when you consume sugar you deplete
B1 and when you consume refined grains
you really deplete B1 and you start
getting all sorts of symptoms um that
are called like berry berry you can look
it up but synthetic B1 uh is made from
colar ammonia acet hydrochloric acid and
some other chemicals um it's not the
same as natural um thyine Manon nitrate
or thyine
hydrochloride is the name of the
synthetic B1 uh 85% of the world's B1
comes from China they make it so so
cheap and uh it's in all the prenatals
it's in the one aays children's vitamins
uh vitamins for older people I mean it's
in so many different things that's what
they use to enrich the flour products
the grains the pasta it's all enriched
with synthetic B vitamins so there's
only two exceptions that I would
recommend taking synthetic vitamins
number one if you're doing a
detoxification okay and that's a
different reason than some maintenance
dose of B1 okay that's one exception and
the other is let's say you have
peripheral neuropathy and you have pain
in the feet or the fingertips and you
want to take something called benine
which is a fat suble B1 product um then
go ahead and take it because there's
really no side effects uh from that
product but in general don't take this
as a maintenance I don't recommend it
get it from nutritional yeast and also
when you're trying to determine if
something's synthetic or natural uh go
ahead and look at the ingredients um if
it doesn't come from food or nutritional
yeast and has a bunch of chemicals then
we know it's synthetic if the numbers
are all whole numbers like 100 let's say
it's a b complex like 100
milligrams of B1 100 milligrams of B2
100 milligrams of B3 or 50 milligrams
it's all whole numbers you know it's
synthetic okay so the best source of
natural B vitamins especially B1 is from
nutritional yeast thanks for
watching so I want to know what you're
interested in as far as a future video
click the link down below and share some
ideas I want to hear
