so is it really that safe to take 10,000
IUS of vitamin D every single day that's
what we're going to talk about did you
know that every single cell and tissue
in your body has receptors for vitamin D
and yet there's actually still no
medical consensus or agreement on what a
vitamin D deficiency really is so I even
think a better question than is 10,000
iuse of vitamin D safe we should ask is
it actually safe to be deficient in
vitamin D the great majority of the
population is deficient and they have
all sorts of problems ranging from a
lowered immune system to arthritis to
autoimmune problems and inflammation
depression high blood pressure and most
of the research that came up with the
rdas for vitamin D I think roughly it's
about 600 IUS were based on preventing
uh rickets things like that but not
therapeutically to address all the other
issues like autoimmune problems and
severe infection actions so there's a
couple very important things for you to
know number one vitamin D toxicity is
very rare okay that's number one number
two the symptoms for vitamin D toxicity
are almost identical to a vitamin K2
deficiency in other words do you really
have too much vitamin D or just not
enough vitamin K2 vitamin K2 addresses
two proteins mainly and they mainly have
to do with the transportation of calcium
so D helps the absorption of calcium
from your gut into your blood by a
factor of 20x and then vitamin K2 dries
that calcium from the arteries into the
bone so two big functions of vitamin K2
is keeping calcium out of the soft
tissues not just the arteries but the
joints the kidneys the lungs other
tissues as well as making your bones
really really solid and I'm talking
about dealing with osteopenia or
osteoporosis you can't fix osteopenia
and osteoporosis with vitamin D vitamin
D doesn't even prevent fractures vitamin
K2 is the key nutrient so when I did a
deep dive in this I think I found the
main confusion with Vitamin D toxy it
has to do with this thing called
international units it's this confusing
measurement of vitamin D so what
actually is an international unit is it
actually a measurement of some mass or
volume or weight or something the answer
is absolutely not it's an arbitrary
number that was agreed on from some
committee so I'll give you just a couple
examples if we take one international
unit of vitamin E that would come out to
67 milligrams now what about one
international unit of vitamin A well
there's two types of vitamin A well you
have the precursor to vitamin A which is
beta katene and then you also have the
actual uh bioactive form of vitamin A
which is retinol so check this out one
international unit of beta carotene
equals6 micrograms and one international
unit of retinol equals. 3 micrograms one
international unit of vitamin D equals
025 micrograms that's like a quarter of
1 milligram so you can see it's very
confusing and I think they're trying to
get rid of it and you know just the
sound of 10,000 IUS sounds like a lot
but you're dealing with just a quarter
of a microgram you see the big problem
with vitamin D is there's a lot of
barriers to entry to absorption skin
color the darker your skin is the harder
it is to absorb vitamin D your age how
much weight you have if you're obese
insulin resistance how much stress you
have if you have any type of genetic
issue that is blocking vitamin D which
is very very common that's a big barrier
you also have where you live the
latitude on the planet you also have the
season I mean one really interesting
thing about vitamin D if you go to
PubMed and you just type in
seasonal diseases wow you're going to
find all sorts of fascinating research
related to vitamin D or even latitude
diseases massive amount of data also the
more unhealthy the liver is or your
gallbladder if you have the gallbladder
removed and you don't have the bile to
absorb it that could be an issue or if
there's inflammation in your gut that
you can't absorb it so there's a lot of
barriers for this vitamin D to go on the
body so if you're like me it's kind of a
hassle to go get a prescription for
vamin D go to some like lab core and get
your blood drawn to get a blood test
there's a much better test it's a home
test it's a blood spot test and I use
this company right here Omega Quant it's
a blood spot so basically it's a way to
take a pin prick of your blood put it on
this little piece of paper stick it in
this kit send it to them they send it
back I don't have to get a prescription
I don't have to go to lab core to get my
blood drawn it's really really
convenient uh so I contacted this
company and they wanted to know if I
wanted to be an affiliate I said no but
I would like my viewers to get a
discount on this test so if you click
down below there'll be a code uh you'll
get the discount not me I'm not going to
get an affiliate commission and that way
you can save a little bit on the test
but there's over
53,000 the last time I checked studies
in vitamin D in Pub medet alone crazy
amount of research and vitamin D uh is
intimately involved in your immune
system and I just want to mention one
part of the immune system called the t-
helper cell the t- helper cell helps to
regulate and make sure that we don't
attack our own tissues it's kind of like
differentiating self from non-self and
if there's confusion in this area and
this cell can't work potentially you can
develop an autoimmune disease which is
your own cells or your own immune system
attacking itself and it just so happens
that vitamin D is a big responsibility
of making sure that cell works I mean
even inside your immune cells they have
the ability to convert the inactive to
the active form of vitamin D so you can
imagine how important this is and
another point is that we've been told to
stay out of the Sun in the summer right
use sunscreen hats and coats and just
cover ourselves I mean this is like an
interesting thing to look at I mean it
stirs up a lot of controversy because
everyone knows that the sun is bad but
is it really well you're thinking about
skin cancer right have you ever heard of
the skin cancer Paradox so despite the
sunscreen despite staying out of the sun
skin cancer continues to increase we
assume that it's coming from the
radiation but really is it vitamin D has
a protective element against melanoma so
if the sun's Rays radiation were really
responsible for this then we would have
seen a decrease in cancer not an
increase also vitamin D is really
important for your lung okay it helps to
modulate um your immune system to make
sure that that immune system is not
overreacting or under reacting so it's
really good for anything related to lung
like
COPD asthma things like that and there's
also doctors that are well recognized
that will recommend taking 50,000 IUS of
vitamin D at the first sign of a cold or
flu symptoms let's look at this chart
right here this is based on some data
I'm going to put all the links down
below but we have the amounts or doses
of Vitamin D a million we have
300,000 100,000 30,000 and 10,000 okay
and this is not scaled but you can see
that these are in weeks and this is the
amounts so we have one week three week
10 week 30 week 100 week how many weeks
are in a year 52 right so that's going
to be right here so this is about a year
right here so check this out you can see
the toxicity level right here you'd have
to take a 100,000 iuse of vitamin D for
a period of time before it becomes toxic
but what I want you to look at right
here is this line right through here
this actually is considered safe if you
adjust for the co-actors in other words
there are certain nutrients that vitamin
D uses to help um prevent complications
like vitamin K2 which I've already
mentioned like magnesium and zinc so
these three nutrients are very important
to take with your Vitamin D it doesn't
even have to be taken exactly with it at
the same time but uh sometime around you
just want to make sure you're not
deficient in these because all of these
help to make vitamin D more active and
prevent the toxicity effect don't want
to forget about increasing water too
because one potential Toxic effect could
be kidney stones but if you're drinking
minimally two and a half liters of fluid
per day you can very easily prevent
kidney stones and keep your um your
urine diluted so these calcium Stones
don't develop despite if you have high
levels of calcium in the urine now what
should a normal level of calcium be okay
when you get it checked should be
between 90 and 100
nanomoles per liter or there's another
measurement you can uh use which is 35
to 40 NGS per milliliter okay so
depending on what lab you're using and
what units so I hope you feel a little
more comfortable about with vitamin D
taking 10,000 or even more I have a
really good um summary of what I just
talked about in a two-page document if
you want to download it for free I put
the link down below check it
out
