hi guys dr. Berg here in this video
we're going to talk about how to fix a
beer gut okay you have any ideas how to
do that you got it you cut out the beer
right well a beer gut or a pot belly or
a basketball protruded belly usually in
men but it can happen in females you
know you've seen the guy on the beach
with the speedo with this potbelly with
skinny legs right skinny arms it's not
fat usually it is ascites ascites is a
fluid-filled sac or fluid around the gut
there's a space between the organs and
the inner skin okay it's called the
peritoneal cavity that thing's filled up
with fluid because the liver is leaking
fluid because it's damaged the liver is
dysfunctional usually cirrhosis that's
when you have normal liver tissue that's
replaced with scar tissue okay so it's a
lot of fibrosis and then you lose the
function and then it starts leaking
fluid it can also be congestive heart
failure but it's this potbelly if you
take your hand and one side of the belly
and you tap the other side or like
create a little ripple it's all fluid
and what they do is they drain the fluid
for like a week and it comes right back
because no one's fixing the actual cost
which is liver they usually high blood
pressure other symptoms related to this
as well swollen legs yellow skin the
whites of the eyes are yellow dilated
veins in the esophagus so a lot of times
when they swallow food the food gets
stuck in the esophagus in the back of
the throat because they're they have
this dilated vein that is obstructing
the food from going through and it's
actually coming from the liver also low
testosterone decreased libido decreased
erections high estrogen manboobs okay
and the site is not a good combination
okay so what are you going to do to fix
this number one there's an enzyme called
Serra pep taste I would get it in the
highest form possible like over 120,000
IU's I would take it three times a day
and an empty stomach what this will do
it'll help get rid of excess scar tissue
where it shouldn't be it's a great
remedy
but you also have to change your diet or
else it's never going to work so you
need to eat a lot of vegetables a lot of
salads and cruciferous vegetables at
least 7 10 cups a day because you cannot
fix the liver without the raw vegetable
all the enzymes all the nutrition and
that's impossible to fix the liver keep
your protein between 3 and 4 ounces not
these huge texas-style steaks you want
to keep them small amount of protein
high quality protein probably well
caught fish pasteurized eggs grafted you
know meats things like that but don't
have a lot just a little bit but you can
have healthy fats so I put a list down
below of what that means and then you
need to do 2 or 3 meals a day with no
snacking because we want to correct
insulin resistance if you haven't if you
have a beer gut but it's you don't drink
beer or drink alcohol it's probably from
foods that are raising insulin okay and
that can create the same problem it can
create a fatty liver and in addition to
cirrhosis but anyway you want to do 3 2
to 3 meals with no snacks ok I'll put a
link down below more data on that and
also choline is a great remedy to take
if you have a fatty liver okay so you
could take that over time and it
actually strips down fat off the body so
anyway I just wanted to give you a
solution to that and go ahead and apply
this and put your comments below hi guys
hey listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you report
