hey guys dr. Berg here listen I had
another request about how to read a
label how do I read labels so I'm going
to do a quick little video and just scan
through very quickly of what I focus on
when I read labels I have my staff bring
in a lot of their food which they
consider totally healthy we're just
going to dissect it and take a peek so
let's go right to it so I'm going to go
through some of these foods here's some
chicken right here so the first thing
that I'm going to look at is the sugars
this is one gram okay that's cool and
ingredients chicken breast meat water
seasoning dextra that's the synthetic
sugar I don't like that one okay so they
got dealt a black pepper crushed pepper
garlic onions I'm getting multi dextran
I don't like that soy sauce who knows
what's what's in that soy another soy
sauce dextran sounds a lot of kind of
additional sugars but this is cool
because it's like one gram of sugar so
you know I may eat it I don't know but I
had my staff bring all their food in
they wanted me to evaluate it so let's
now talk about bacon okay so we got
bacon here and here's some bacon the
first ingredient is pork water sea salt
cane sugar cultured celery extract spice
extract okay so it does have sugar in it
but look at it a zero sugar so it must
be less than one gram that's pretty good
I like that let's take a look at this
sugar free dry rub uncured pork bacon
endorsed by paleo okay so no antibiotics
okay that's cool
let's see in the back Sugar's zero so we
got pork sea salt spices black pepper or
feta gray nutmeg white pepper mace
allspice okay so this is this is good
this is good
I mean I would like it if it was organic
but still this is low sugar so this
would be cooked good
let's go this year we got organic now
look at the trailer it says organic
vegetarian diet feed like that's
something special like would it be like
animal feed but with a sheet like what
would they do if it wasn't vegetarian
diet feed but the point is that they're
probably feeding the animal that the
turkey some corn and soy but the good
thing about this is if it's organic that
means it's non-gmo feed so that's a plus
point no growth hormones added well I
like that
free-range which actually means nothing
this is organic turkey breast and sea
salt so this would be totally totally
fine okay salad dressings okay Bragg's
this is the one that you got to read the
first thing I look at is the sugars this
is four grams of sugar so I higher than
I would like with two tablespoons that's
actually I try to find one that's a lot
lower but this is what I want to look at
mainly in the dressings what kind of oil
so this is outside of vinegar purified
water Organic mango purity that's where
the sugars coming from organic rice
starch I don't like that that's probably
a thickener apple juice concentrate I'm
just scanning there's a lot of different
juices in here okay so it doesn't have
soy oil or corn oil or canola that's
cool
so this would be totally fine unless you
try to lose weight which it has the
sugar so I probably would try to find
another one that doesn't have the sugars
but the point is that you want to look
for one without the soy oil okay
mustard yellow mustard is is pretty safe
forgot distilled vinegar mustard seed
salt American spices perfect this is not
a problem when I look for fishes fish
not fishes fish the first thing I'm
looking at is wild-caught I will not
consume farm-raised so while caught is
the best cod salmon so that's what I'm
going to do with that
now as far as soy I'm sorry sour cream
dairy what I'll do is I'll I want to
look to make sure that it's organic
because again you have this cow that is
fed soy and corn that's GML so if it's
organic cream it's non-gmo so that's
cool so this is all organic so this
would be totally fine
great sour cream okay let's look at the
Heinz organic tomato ketchup well at
least it's organic that's good right but
if we look at the sugars it is four
grams of sugar but look at the serving
size one tablespoon so that's like four
grams per tablespoon that's a lot of
sugar and you can see it's from organic
let's say King now organic sugar so it
doesn't say it's from cane sugar so it's
probably from beet sugar or something
like that but who knows what when it's
from but I mean this is better than
regular ketchup but still it's too much
sugar okay mayonnaise is another one
that I want to talk about from Trader
Joe's and they have these at the health
food store the cool thing is this brand
mayonnaise has safflower oil egg yolks
water lemon juice - still vinegar salt
organic sugar they have the sugar in
there
mustard black pepper citric acid most of
these mayonnaise has sort of soil but
let's look at how many sugars zero grams
so this is very very small amount so
this would be fine to consume so this is
thank goodness that someone's producing
non-gm L a low sugar mayonnaise now get
to the cheese we got the cheddar cheese
right here the good thing from cows not
treated with rBST that's a hormone okay
that's cool but the other thing is that
because it's not organic that means that
these cows were probably fed soybean and
corn that's GMO so that but they're not
added adding hormones so I would not
this cheese okay because of that shot
because they are exposed to a lot of
that now here's a Trader Joe's has a lot
of different great cheeses from other
parts of the world and here's an organic
cheese that's pasture raised that's
that's the key word is pasture raised
that's what I want so this would be a
good cheese I'm not going to look at
sugar in the cheese I mean let's see if
we could see if there's any sugar in
here
probably not let's see sodium protein it
doesn't even count e carbs zero zero
carbs yeah so you know it's worried
about that this is totally good this is
another one that's pasture raised carry
goal they have the butter as well from
Ireland I like this there are certain
types times in the year that they do use
a little bit of grain but for the most
part they use agrestic cows I like to
choose I feel really good on this cheese
when I consume it okay and let's see
this is a product called true whip so
it's B natural
no hydrogenated oils so okay we're going
to look at the sugars two grams per
serving sides which is two teaspoons if
you notice that mainly I look at sugars
that's like the main thing I'm looking
at I will look at carbs as well and
deduct the fiber to get the net carb if
there's some food that like I'm trying
to look at but this one has zero fiber
so let's see what this with types of
sugars they got the water tapioca syrup
I don't like tapioca syrup palm kernel
oil I like that cane sugar units they're
adding a couple different sugars there
tapioca starch soy yeah I don't really
like this the sugars are kind of low but
still I would prefer a different type
okay now this here is sunflower seed
roasted it's kind of like they they
grind this down instead of peanut butter
they have the sunflower seeds I do like
this a lot
just safflower oil peanut oil
and sunflower seeds and salt I love it
yeah this would be totally fine
this would be great as a kind of a your
fat yeah okay let's see the pickles
now the pickles a lot of times they put
that hidden sugar so let's let's take a
look
cucumbers brine water distilled white
vinegar salt garlic dill grape leaves
this is perfect it has zero sugars a lot
of these pickles have sugar but this one
is totally fine yeah this would be
really good to consume right here so I
just wanted to kind of go through a
couple labels just to give you an idea
of what I look at when I read a label I
constantly labels so make sure it's very
low sugars from organic wild-caught
grass-fed pasture-raised
that's very important and and then also
with the dairy just make sure if you're
going to do dairy make sure it's organic
okay so put your comments below
