today I'm going to give you some
extremely valuable information if you
want to make the transition off of
alcohol nicotine drugs a lot smoother
and I recently just stumbled on this
information uh from a doctor uh William
Kaufman nicotine addiction alcohol
addiction Eating Disorders anxiety all
have something in common there's
something in your cells deep in the
mitochondria the energy Factory of the
cell that allows the body to help
extract energy from food all you need to
know is that the major deficiency in all
the problems I talked about is NAD and
NAD not only helps you create energy in
the body but many many other things it's
involved in over 500 different chemical
reactions in fact you can't live without
it you may have heard of NAD supplements
and things like that I'm not
recommending those I'm recommending the
precursor for NAD and that is vitamin B3
nasin now nasin is typically known to
help you lower cholesterol and increase
HDL but it does a lot more there's some
serious research on this and of course
you're not going to hear it from the
medical profession because it goes right
against all of the Medical Solutions the
drug solutions that are out there when
someone starts to smoke smoke or drink
or take drugs this creates a huge impact
on the person's ability to make NAD as
well as niin and so what can a person do
with an NAD deficiency well you can't
correct it by just eating food it won't
work you need large amounts of niin to
correct this and nasin B3 okay can help
calm down the central nervous system
because various chemicals and drugs and
alcohol compete for this NAD so they
won't allow it to work so you just need
to increase more production of NAD to
overcome a lot of the associated
problems that come with addictions so
people with addictions are literally
starving for energy because the neurons
just don't work and so there's all sorts
of associated issues that come along
with that and even if you have
successfully over an addiction uh this
NAD is going to be really important to
making you feel good because there are
six main symptoms that occur when you're
deficient in NAD fatigue muscle soreness
weight gain difficulty getting a quality
of sleep brain fog and decrease stamina
you just don't have the endurance Now by
taking high doses and I'm going to tell
you how much to take in a minute you can
recover much easier mentally and
physically now there's many different
forms of vitamin B3 I would recommend
straight niin now one of the problems
that people have with nasin is it
creates this flushing response on your
skin and people get freaked out about it
so if you have a problem with that and
you don't like that you can get a no
flesh niin but the point is that if you
want to reduce the withdrawal symptoms
and the cravings and help you overcome
this addiction and feel better you want
to take higher amounts of niin I'm
talking about 1.5 to3 gram not
milligrams grams okay so I would get
them in 500 mgram tablets they're very
inexpensive I think you can get a bottle
for like $5 I would start out taking a
smaller amount right and then you kind
of build up over a period of a week or
two to uh
1.5 G to 3 G of phasin and just see how
you feel there are also clinics around
that give people IVs for NAD for
addictions so the question is going to
come up can I just take NAD as a
supplement or nadh which is another
version of that uh yeah you could it's
just more expensive there's a lot more
to this vitamin and what it does and how
you can benefit from it and I will be
doing more videos on that but I will say
there's other things that you can do to
also increase
NAD combined with this NAD therapy or
taking niin you can do intermittent
fasting you can go on the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet you can
exercise all of those will help you and
if you want some basic information of
exact what to eat I put that up right
here check it out
