so if you're deciding to take magnesium
to help yourself sleep or maybe for
anxiety or stress today we're going to
talk about when you might not need
magnesium in fact the worst thing you
can do is buy some magnesium and then
find out it doesn't really work for them
that's not what they needed or it
worsens their sleep situation magnesium
is supposed to calm you down it's
supposed to lower cortisol and
adrenaline how could it actually make
you more stressed out that's the
question your anxiety could come from
many different causes so magnesium is
just one remedy to handle one aspect of
sleep and anxiety as far as sleep goes
if we dissect sleep into two different
categories people that can't get the
Sleep versus people that can't stay
asleep when you initially try to go to
sleep if you can go to sleep very easily
chances are you have good
parasympathetics what does that mean
well there's two parts of the nervous
system you have the parasympathetic and
that's kind of like the system that
actually pushes you into a deep deep
restful sleep it keeps you calm and it's
mainly responsible for the first part of
the Sleep especially the deeper Delta
wave sleep okay but the second part of
the sleep is more what's called REM
sleep people that have higher levels of
adrenaline and cortisol tend to wake up
like 2 o'clock in the morning or 2:30 or
3:00 in the middle of night and they're
like laying there like okay so I'm more
awake now than I am during the day so if
we look at this circadian wave rhythm of
cortisol hormone uh the lowest point
should be at 2 a.m. and the highest
point should be roughly about 8:00 in
the morning but a lot of times it's kind
of backwards and you're always going to
wake up feeling not very refreshed so
then people take magnesium because
magnesium is supposed to lower cortisol
and adrenaline but sometimes it doesn't
why because the actual cause of this
High cortisol is not coming from a lack
of magnesium you see the problem is it's
really hard to test for a magnesium
deficiency because as soon as you test
it in the blood uh it's not going to
really show up necessarily unless you're
really really deficient because most of
your magnesium 98 to 99% is inside the
cell let's say you don't consume a lot
of green things I'm talking about
vegetables that are green because
chlorophyll has magnesium in it but it's
also high in some nuts like almonds it's
high in chocolate it's also high in
pumpkins seeds so let's say for example
you don't eat a lot of those Foods let's
say instead you are heavy on the the
carbs okay you do a lot of sugar and
Grains refined sugar and Grains will
deplete your magnesium if you're
fatigued or maybe have cramps in your
legs at night you could be deficient
magnesium okay so you go to bed and
you're lying there you just can't get
into a sleep right chances are you don't
have enough parasympathetic nervous
system if you're experiencing a lot of
stress and you're not exercising that's
definitely going to screw up your sleep
uh exercise helps long walks help but
what really helps more than both of
those is physical work yeah outside
because it also handles the mental
component it takes your mind off the
stress now also if you're low in vitamin
B1 okay you're going to have uh this
situation where you're going to lie down
and you're going to try to go to sleep
but you're thinking you're solving
problems 24/7 you can't turn it off that
means you need be1 and chances are doing
too many carbs which deplete B1 in my
situation when I was younger in my 20s
uh I'm in my 30s right now and I'm being
also very sarcastic I used to consume a
lot of carbs and not any B1 so I had
restless leg syndrome I had a lot of
nervous anxiety but one thing that could
have helped me if just to take B1 if I
would have known about it probably would
have got rid of my restless leg syndrome
but when you take B1 you'll feel the
sense of relief and you you can finally
turn it off and go to sleep also if
you're doing a lot of cough your tea
that can deplete you of the B1 if you're
going to take a B1 make sure it's a
natural version I'll put a link down
below for more information on that point
now you have another Factor too uh
melatonin uh I don't recommend taking a
melatonin supplement even though
melatonin will help you get to sleep
it's not good at helping you stay asleep
I suggest kind of looking at the reason
why you might not have enough melatonin
in the first place and there's a
precursor or thing that turns in the
Melatonin um that's called tryptophan
but there's another thing you can do as
well and this has to do with I think a
better way to get your melatonin see
melatonin is inhibited by Blue Light
okay like sitting in front of your
computer screen the cell phone the whole
thing that can really deplete your
melatonin what recharges the Melatonin
is number one Darkness or certain types
of light like
infrared over 50% of the sun's rays are
infrared one really good remedy for
sleep cycles is just to be outside more
to get exposure to the Sun the sunet and
the sunrise has certain colors of like
orange yellow that is higher levels of
infrared which can greatly help uh wind
things down for you so um you can maybe
even get one of those um lights that uh
helps wake you up and this is really
good in the winter time when you're not
outside very much and it's also good if
you have to stay inside a lot and work a
lot inside and you don't have access to
the outside you should have some type of
internal full spectrum light but it's
these lights are really really important
we want to um not be Overexposed to the
blue lights if you can get incandescent
that would be the best thing if you have
a fireplace if you could be exposed to
that that would be great or a campfire
all of this will give you infrared very
uh beneficial also I find that when
people take vitamin D before bed it
really helps their sleep and one more
point about magnesium magnesium will not
work if you're really low in vitamin d
and vitamin D won't work either if
you're low in magnesium if you're
fasting and you're new at fasting and
you go to bed hungry that could keep you
up because you're not adapted yet and
starts releasing sugar and all of a
sudden you wake up because of the
cortisol realize if the fasting
triggered your sleep problem maybe you
need to gradually work into it slower
and maybe even that last meal you
increase your carbs to 50 grams like
have a bunch of berries for example and
figure out what 50 grams would be to get
more carbs just to kind of like handle
this uh Spike and cortisol situation
which can be a problem for certain
people now let's talk about what happens
when people cannot stay asleep right
they're getting up and they don't get
that last part of the Sleep the
sympathetic nervous system activates
adrenaline but also cortisol can be
involved as well because they they both
work together in the stress response and
this REM sleep rapid eye movement is a
is kind of a very superficial wave have
these vivid dreams it's almost like
you're awake but you're sleeping so all
it takes is just a little stress to kind
of bump you out of that what you need to
do reduce cortisol is
to exercise more but make sure you do
not overtrain really working hard and
you can sweat and use up a lot of your
energy but don't go overboard and don't
do this every single day maybe twice a
week and then you stopped exercising
your mitochondria now are so used to
that energy production and you're just
like going to bed with all this extra
energy you just you have to deplete it
long walks are excellent at reducing
cortisol as well anytime the blood
sugars go low you could have a situation
with high cortisol but here's the thing
if you do it right you do intermittent
fasting correctly and gradually over
time it'll be very smooth where you
won't have a major problem with cortisol
why because you've adapted to your fat
and you're burning fat and there's not a
need to rely on sugar so I found that
having a little bit more salt especially
if you're on a low carb diet or doing
fasting is going to be vital that alone
can solve your sleeping problems without
even taking magnesium okay have some
salt right before you go to bed and just
see what happens cool thing about salt
is salt retains
fluid which
means you're not going to get up and
have to use the bathroom as much if you
have a little more salt versus not
having enough salt you'll tend to pee
more at night but what about anxiety
right anxiety is kind of tied in with
insomnia but if you just have anxiety
obviously you want to evaluate what's
causing anxiety but if you just have
anxiety for no reason I'm telling you B1
is the answer to that you should just
try some if you ever notice someone with
anxiety their inhalation is not matching
the timing of their exhalation and so
what happens is that you don't get the
right
CO2 retention to allow the oxygen to go
into the cells I mean just picture
someone who has a panic attack right
they're getting to too much oxygen so
just by slowing down the breath and uh
I've done other videos on this
especially uh if you're trying to go to
sleep or get back to sleep breathing
through your nose slowly in slowly out
the same Rhythm boy that that helps a
lot but also like a lot of medications
especially metformin will deplete you a
B1 let's say you do need magnesium right
magnesium glycinate is a good one why uh
because it's especially good for sleep
and anxiety because of the glycinate
part the glycinate part of the Magnesium
is really Glycine and glycine is a
calming amino acid when should you take
magnesium glycinate maybe about a half
hour before you go to bed and so there's
other types of magnesium out there you
can get this magnesium citrate it works
but probably not as good you can take
the magnesium oxide or the carbonate
those don't get absorbed as well they're
very cheap and they don't seem to work
as well as the uh ginate the Magnesium
glycinate is really good because so many
people are also deficient in Glycine and
if you have not seen my video where I
talk more on glycine uh you should check
that one out it's very important I put
it up right
here
