hi in this video we're going to discuss
what is toxemia preeclampsia
I should have entitled this video how to
prevent toxemia for just 9 dollars
because this is actually a preventable
condition everything I'm going to talk
about is based on this book the natural
way to a trouble-free pregnancy the
toxemia thymine connection okay that's
be won by John Erwin MD this is an
amazing book I just could not put it
down okay so toxemia is a situation in
pregnancy where you're very very sick
there's over 30,000 fetal deaths in the
US alone
per year 200 maternal deaths per year in
the u.s. it's life-threatening you get
high blood pressure protein in the urine
red blood cell breakdown impaired liver
and kidney function swelling seizures
and premature births and what dr. Erwin
talks about it's it's simply a vitamin
b1 deficiency because in certain
individuals the placenta blocks the
absorption of b1 so I don't want to give
away the entire book but if you're
interested I suggest you read this
because it's a fascinating read and very
very important to bring up the awareness
of how important b1 is in your pregnancy
this one says a hundred milligrams of b1
daily has been essential and preventing
toxemia and pregnancy
he has case study after case study
explains the technical part he breaks it
down so anyone can understand but it's
very very important and vital so if
you're pregnant if you know people that
are pregnant recommend this book have
them read it have them start taking b1
and a hundred milligrams also have them
take nutritional yeast as the whole
complex because it's not all about b1
there's other B vitamins as well but I
just wanted to bring up your awareness
and how important nutrition is in a
pregnancy thanks for watching
hey so if you haven't done so please
press subscribe now that way you can be
aware of all the new content that I'm
putting out on a regular basis
