so what is so special about tahini
butter well first of all what is it
it's basically ground sesame seeds and
there's quite a few good things about to
any butter first of all it's very keto
friendly it's a very good amount of
healthy fats with great protein and a
lot of nutrition and I would recommend
consuming it raw and that way you get
the vitamin E complex and some of the
other fat soluble vitamins including
linoleic acid and quite a few other ones
tahini butter is very rich in final
nutrients which can help to protect the
cells clean up free radical damage from
all the pollution and oxidation it also
has one of the highest sources of
something called methionine which is an
amino acid which is really good to
prevent graying of your hair it also
helps to build glutathione which is the
main antioxidant for the liver it also
can help form new blood vessels and
decrease copper poisoning so tahini is
loaded with vitamin b1 hyoeun zinc
copper magnesium manganese it can help
support cholesterol levels blood
pressure reduce anxiety dizziness and
headaches and the way that I consume it
is in my salad dressing and I also use
it in hummus but because of the bland
taste I usually mix it up with other
types of nut butters but some people
actually really just like it as is so if
you haven't tried to any butter I put
some great links down below in the
description so you can check it out so
if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
