I have a question for you what do you
think has more vitamin A three ounces of
beef liver or 40 pounds of raw carrots
well if you guessed beef liver you are
correct now it is true that raw carrots
have a lot of pre-vitamin a okay called
beta-carotene but the active form of
vitamin A is retinol and unfortunately
they don't differentiate between the
pre-vitamin A and the active form of
vitamin A which is retinol if you look
up the databases on this in all these
different studies they kind of mix up
the different foods they'll have like
beef liver and then it might have
carrots or potatoes and so it's really
hard to understand this what you have to
realize is that beta-carotene has to
convert into retinol and the percentage
of conversion is not very high like
three percent right recently I had a
genetic test to look at my genes to see
if there's any mutations or problems
genetically that I have and there were
several things but one thing that was
interesting I have a problem with this
Gene right here bco1
which happens to be in charge of
converting
beta-carotene into retinol in fact I
just recently learned that my conversion
is like even 48 less than three percent
so I'm getting like 1.5
convergence now that could be a problem
if I was eating in a different way but
it's not a problem but it could be
because the solution to this problem
right here as well as this problem right
here is to make sure you get the animal
sources of retinol because the
beta-carotene sources are going to be
plant-based and this is going to be
animal base the best source of retinol
would be beef liver
odd liver cod liver oil egg yolk butter
and there's nothing wrong with
beta-carotene it's a it's a great
nutrient but if you're trying to get
your vitamin A from beta-carotene
good luck now since we're on the topic
of carrots I think we should talk about
are carrots okay to consume if you're
doing the ketogenic diet well for that
information I created this short video
right here check it out
all right we're going to compare carrots
to carrot juice right here now both have
roughly the same amount of carbohydrate
okay but the hormone effect is very very
different when you eat carrots you're
not going to stimulate insulin too much
okay you're not going to have a huge
blood sugar issue like you would with
carrot juice and why is that simply
because of the net carbs over here so
carrots have 17.4 grams of carbs but
they have 10.2 grams of fiber so what do
we get to do we get to deduct the fiber
from the total carbohydrates bringing
this down to only two teaspoons of sugar
now the question is how much fiber does
carrot juice have well it only has one
gram so if we deduct the 17.4 grams of
carbohydrates from the one gram that
leaves us with 16.4 grams which is
slightly more than four teaspoons of
sugar more than double the sugar so even
though carrots are high on the glycemic
index because of the massive amount of
fiber this sugar becomes much less of a
problem in fact they call that the
glycemic load we're basically factoring
in all this fiber reducing the sugar
effect so carrots are definitely okay to
eat on keto carrot juice is a big fat no
now another interesting thing about
carrot juice if you look on the label
it says a hundred and eighty percent the
daily value of vitamin A okay well what
they don't tell you is that's not
actually vitamin A yes legally it is
vitamin A but in reality it's just
beta-carotene it has to convert to
retinol which is the active form of
vitamin A and because of the majority of
population does not convert well you'd
be lucky to convert even three percent
of this to real vitamin A so if you're
trying to get your real vitamin A from
carrots don't hold your breath now
another interesting thing about this
carrot juice if you see it says 13
servings of veggies in this whole bottle
right here so apparently in my plate
which is the USDA recommendations for
veggies you can actually drink your
vegetables so according to this it says
daily recommendations two and a half
cups
equals five servings of a variety of
vegetables so you can drink two and a
half of these to get your five servings
of vegetables but what they don't tell
you is this sugar thing right here
there's a lot of sugar and juice but
there's a lot of fiber and less sugar
and actual carrots since we're talking
about the fiber effect of insulin if you
haven't seen this video check it out I
put it up right here
