hey guys today we're going to talk about
the relationship between GERD
gastroesophageal reflux disorder or acid
reflux or indigestion and your joints
okay there's a huge connection now the
purpose of the stomach is threefold
number one to help you digest protein
number two to help you absorb minerals
and three to kill pathogens or microbes
so we're going to talk about this first
purpose right here normally the stomach
should be very very acidic between one
and three that's extremely acidic for
everything to work right
not just the digestion of protein but
the closure of the valve at the top you
have little sensors in this valve
receptors for pH so what happens if your
stomach pH is not acid enough it just
won't close if it's really acid it will
tend to close so that's kind of how it
works when you have GERD or acid reflux
the normal thought is oh wow I have too
much acid so I need to alkalize my body
I need to take an anti acid right which
just makes it worse
you go from feeling a little relief and
then also the next time you eat it's
worse because your take your alkalizing
the pH you're actually raising the page
we want to keep it low and very very
acid the lower the pH the more acid it
is and there's numerous reasons why your
stomach would become too alkaline in the
first place number one as you age you
lose your strong acidic pH medications
especially anti-acids low salt diet
because the chloride in sodium chloride
is the precursor to make hydrochloric
acid junk foods and low potassium foods
because you also need potassium to help
you make stomach acids
thus large quantities of vegetables so
if you have GERD or acid reflux that
usually means you don't have enough acid
so low acid is the cause this is the
symptom and the effects of that on
protein digestion is this you're not
going to be able to build up the full
strength of your ten
or your ligaments so you could basically
be susceptible to tearing and a tendon
or ligament you can have a tender
ligament that's too tight or because
tendons and ligaments are around joints
you can have this popping and creaking
in the joints and your your muscles
might be weaker you could be losing disc
height a loss of collagen which is the
kind of the glue that holds the joint
together again more clicking popping and
a loss of the range of motion and even
loss of protein in the bone itself a lot
of the bone is not just minerals it's
protein so these are just some of the
effects of poor protein digestion
because you don't have the hydrochloric
acid and you can have other symptoms of
low stomach acid like gas which is
beautification or the inability for
protein to digest alright so what do we
do about it well here's some remedies
apple cider vinegar there's so many
people that take outside of vinegar that
feel better with their joints and this
is why it helps you digest protein so
there's many ways you can take it you
can take it in a pill form you can mix
it with water like a tablespoon in water
drinking with a straw
next remedy would be something called
betaine hydrochloride the hydrochloride
splits off and helps you make
hydrochloric acid it's a natural remedy
I put a link down below of a remedy that
I recommend that combines apple cider
vinegar with betaine hydrochloride
that's really good to acidify the
stomach as well 3 potassium you need
potassium to make Hartig lauric acid
thus the large quantities of the
vegetables that you need to be eating in
addition to everything else on the keto
program ok and then we have sea salt
which provides for the raw material to
make our dough chloric acid so it not
only has sodium chloride but it has a
lot of other minerals too now if you
have inflammation in the stomach called
gastritis or an ulcer if you take these
two you're gonna feel worse it's gonna
feel like it's burning okay in which
case you would want to help heal the
ulcer or sue the ulcer with believenot
cabbage has a certain factor to help
heal the stomach wheatgrass juice powder
is also really good to provide
chlorophyll to heal the inner line
the stomach and the small intestine so
you might want to take that for awhile
even months before you introduce these
to acidify errs okay but that would be
the thing you'd want to do heal it and
then acidify it and then things are
going to do a lot better now on a rare
occasion you might need to fortify the
other part of the digestive system with
a good probiotic the one that I
recommend is called effective microbes
okay eeehm effective my microbes I don't
have a brand you can just look it up and
you would want to take it's in a liquid
so you just take like a half a teaspoon
in some water before you go to bed and
take that over time that seems to help
build up the lactic acid in the
intestines which greatly take the stress
off the hydrochloric acid so they both
work together alright thanks for
watching so we've been getting a lot of
success stories but I don't have your
success story yet so click the link down
below and upload you before and after I
want to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
