there's a lot of confusion on
electrolyte powder so I just want to
clear this up it's actually a very
interesting topic just to understand
what an electrolyte really is so what is
it well an electrolyte is an
electrically charged element or mineral
what does that mean it's basically a
mineral that is free allowing it to be
an ion now what is that well normally if
you've ever taken chemistry you'll see
that it has either a negative or
positive charge around this mineral
without getting too tactical all you
need to know is these minerals when
they're free are ions which means they
can conduct electricity in water so they
have certain charges and then the body
can use these uh different charged
minerals to allow movement you can kind
of think of it like a battery in a
battery you have minerals which are
flowing electrons from one point to
another creating this current so
electrolytes contribute to this
Electrical uh phenomena that occurs in
the body so I just want to give you a
quick demo to really make sure you get
this concept before we move on so check
this out we have a light source we have
a power source it's plugged into the
wall over here you can see the cords and
we have an incomplete circuit okay
electrical circuit we cut the wire and
we put the wire into distilled water
distilled water is water without
minerals and without electrolytes
electrolytes electrically charged
minerals okay so we have no conductivity
here you can see there there's no light
so we're going to take some electrolytes
here and we'll take a scoop of
electrolytes and we'll pour it in to
this distilled
water and let's see what
happens okay now we're going to mix it
with the water to be make sure it's uh
dissolving and look what's happening we
have a a complete circuit now so one of
the main purposes of electrolytes in the
body is to power the nervous system
which is the electrical system the body
which Powers the muscles and all the
different organs so now that you know
that electrolytes provide the raw
material to make things more electrical
in the body how does that really relate
to um the function of the body well
number one it's responsible for nerve
conductivity okay the transmission of
nerve impulses and so if you have a
problem with electrolyte you'll have a
problem with these impulses and it can
affect the pacemaker of the heart you
can have palpitations you can have
various nerve issues you can have stress
in the nervous system you can just feel
stressed like your nerves are stressed
out and where do those nerves go they go
to muscles right so you can have all
sorts of muscle problems from muscle
cramps during the day or at night or
even weak muscles the movement of fluid
through the body is dependent on these
electrolytes as well so whe whether you
are dehydrated or hydrated depends on
these electrically charged minerals in
sufficient amounts and in the right
balance for example if you have too much
sodium and N the potassium you will get
fluid retention also pH is dependent on
these electrolytes as well so each part
of your body is a different pH and so if
one part becomes too far to one extrem
versus another you can have all sorts of
issues and the different phes of the
body
activate different enzymes for example
if your stomach pH is not acidic enough
certain enzymes will not be activated
and you can't digest food and then we
have this very important and phenomena
of electrolytes called the production of
energy so your energy level is highly
influenced by these electrolytes as well
there's something called the sodium
pottassium pump okay and this little
pump is in all of your cells and it's
dependent on sufficient amounts of
sodium and potassium and this pump
allows the cell to become like a battery
so it can store charge and 30% of all
your energy is dependent on that pump
and it's really easy to get sodium in
the diet but it's more difficult to get
pottassium simply because our potassium
requirements are so high we need like
4700 milligrams of potassium every
single day and the question is where are
you going to get that you can get it
from the diet
if you like salad and vegetables which
most people don't U because you would
have to consume minimally seven to even
10 cups of salad with other foods to get
this 4700 mgram requirement so many
people enhance their diet with
electrolyte powders so if you're
deficient electrolytes you can feel weak
fatigue brain fog dehydrated
palpitations dizzy why would you be
dizzy well because of the hydration
effect in your blood so you have enough
blood or volume of blood to maintain the
blood flow up to your brain it's kind of
like if you were to give blood and take
too much blood out and you wouldn't have
the volume you would feel very dizzy and
faint so it's the volume of blood and
the pressure both by the way controlled
by electrolytes that can greatly affect
um many different things related to
feeling dizzy when you stand up or even
high blood pressure there is a big
correlation between low pottassium and
high blood pressure I mean you probably
heard your doctor if you have high blood
pressure he going to tell you to avoid
salt but unfortunately patients are not
told to increase their pottassium levels
which actually is more important and if
you're deficient in potassium you can
have cramps in your calfs especially
when you're sleeping at night all right
next topic I want to get into is um how
do you create a deficiency of
electrolytes well many different ways by
consuming refined carbohydrates or
sugars you'll retain sodium but you'll
deplete potassium
magnesium calcium and other things as
well being under diuretic can cause you
to become deficient in sodium as well as
potassium as well being stressed out
with high levels of cortisol can deplete
these electrolytes having food with
hidden MSG mono sodium glutamate can
deplete you of potassium you'll wake up
the next day with a lot of fluid
retention and not sure where that came
from in that situation the thing to do
is to take more potassium as electrolyte
to push out this excess sodium drinking
too much water can deplete you of these
electrolytes because they dilute the
electrolytes especially sodium and you
can create a condition called
hyponatremia that's low sodium and uh
that could be very very serious your
brain can swell you can go into a coma
so drinking too much water is not always
the best thing to do if you want to be
hydrated to be hydrated you need both
fluid and electrolytes now vomiting
diarrhea can also create a deficiency of
these electrolytes being a diabetic
you're going to be deficient in these
electrolytes especially pottassium
and if you're sweating as in exercise
you can very easily end up with a
electrolyte deficiency So speaking about
sweating and exercise there's two
general types of electrolytes out there
you have electrolytes that are more for
sport type things involving minerals
that replace sweat and those usually are
higher in sodium and then you have other
types of electrolytes like this one
right here which is my brand which of
course I'm not biased on the quality of
ingredients in this product but this one
being a regular electrolyte has very
high levels of potassium like a th000
milligrams of potassium 75 Mig of
calcium and 60 Mig of chlorides and only
40 Mig of sodium preserving size that's
then compared to the sport version which
is 500 milligrams of sodium so when
you're exercising you lose a lot of
sweat you lose a lot of sodium so you
need more sodium but when you're not
exercising okay you don't need that much
sodium and so if you were to take a
sport electrolyte with a lot of sodium
um and not exercise you're going to end
up with fluid retention but on the flip
side if you take a regular electrolyte
with low sodium while you're exercising
with all this potassium that too can
create another imbalance so the regular
electrolytes should be taken when you're
not exercising now will it be a problem
if you take this while you exercise no
you just have to make sure that you take
extra sea salt during the day to replace
what's missing When you sweat now I just
want to show you the relationship
between these three sport electrolyte
beverages or powders okay so of course
we I'll put mine up there now if we take
a look at Gatorade it has uh 75
milligram of potassium and Powerade has
35 Mig of potassium and Dr Burg's sport
electrolyte has 1,000 Mig of potassium
so you can see there's a huge difference
in potassium now what about sodium
Gatorade has 270 milligram of sodium
Powerade has 150 milligram and Dr Burg's
sport electrolyte has 500 milligrams and
Gatorade in Powerade also threw in some
phosphates or phosphorus and I don't
know the amounts because it doesn't tell
you on the label but basically they're
giving you three electrolytes okay with
that product and my sport electrolytes
is giving you five electrolytes in much
higher amounts with all of the trace
minerals and the biggest benefit is
there's no sugar it's with Organic
Stevia with natural flavoring and no
hidden maltodextrin which I'm going to
come back to in in a minute Gatorade on
the other hand has not just sugar but
dextrose which is a synthetic type of
sugar totaling 34 gram of sugar per
bottle 34 grams that's a lot of sugar
and the interesting thing about sugar is
it tends to deplete electrolytes
especially potassium Powerade has
fructose giving you 21 gram of sugar so
Gatorade and Powerade has a few
electrolytes and a lot of sugar now of
course they're going to taste good and
they might appear to work but honestly
it's just colored sugar water and they
probably use artificial colorings and
probably artificial sweeteners I don't
know I want to touch on the potassium
just a little bit more pottassium also
helps with insulin sensitivity if you're
trying to lose weight if you're trying
to regulate your blood sugars you want
to make sure you have enough potassium
because potassium can help those
conditions potassium also regulates
pulse rate if you're low in potassium
your pulse rate tends to go higher your
blood pressure tends to go higher and
the other interesting thing about
potassium is that it's part of the
glycogen storage of sugar in your in
your liver and your muscles the way you
store Sugar is through all these little
sugar uh glucose molecules strung
together okay and that's called glycogen
and you need pottassium for every
molecule of glucose to store it so
there's a lot of pottassium that's
locked up within this glucose molecule
as well as a lot of water in fact
there's three times as much water or per
gram of glucose and then you have
potassium with that so when someone is
on the ketogenic diet and they get rid
of a lot of the stored glucose as
glycogen they also can get rid of the
fluid that comes with it this is why
they lose water weight within the first
week or so or two weeks as well as a
loss of potassium and this is one reason
why if you're going to start the
ketogenic diet you want to take
electrolytes at the same time to make
sure you're not deficient in potassium
and magnesium and other electrolytes now
one more really interesting thing about
electrolyte powder that you probably
have never heard before you want to make
sure that when you get electrolyte
powder it doesn't have hidden sugars or
starches or carbohydrates as in
maltodextrin maltodextrin is considered
a starch even though on the glycemic
index it's higher than glucose it's like
way above 100 and yet it's not
classified as a sugar even though it
behaves worse than a sugar a lot of
times you use the multiexon in the
flavorings of a lot of these different
products both natural and artificial
flavorings in fact I had to pay more for
my flavorings of my different
electrolyte powders to make sure that
they did not include this maltodextrin
in the products but there's a very
simple simple way to figure out if your
electrolyte powder or other products
have this hidden maltodextrin and it's
called a starch test and all you do is
you put some of these electrolytes in a
little glass okay dissolve it put a
couple drops of iodine and if it turns
purple okay it has hidden starch in it
most likely this maltodextrin if it
doesn't turn dark purple and it stays
kind of yellow like iodine should look
like it does not have a starch in it
okay one last Point how much sport
electroly powder should someone take per
day and they come in a single serve
stick pack Okay so one scoop would be
one of those stick packs in some water
per day now because of the censoring and
the suppressing of the algorithms on
YouTube it's becoming more difficult to
find my content and there's a lot of
content that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side since we're on the
topic of this important mineral
potassium if you haven't seen this video
check it out I put it up right
here
