So today we're going to talk about sea
moss you probably heard about sea moss
it's all over social media what actually
is it well seek kelp in sea moss are
types of seaweed which are basically
plants that can grow underneath the
water and when you look at c moss versus
C kelp they're fairly similar in what's
in them as far as overall nutrition
content people are using seos on their
skin uh to take it internally to help
their digestive system to help their
inflammation and people are getting all
sorts of benefits from this from
increasing their testosterone increasing
the overall health let me first state
that Coss has a number of things that
people talk about it has amino acids
that's a type of protein it has fiber it
has vitamins it has minerals fatty acids
phytonutrients and the list goes on and
on and on and on now of course if you
look at the protein the amino acids it
doesn't compare
to a steak or animal protein what does
stand out with sea moss and other types
of seelp is the minerals especially the
trace minerals trace minerals are those
minerals that are needed in very very
small amounts but are very very
necessary and you're not going to find a
lot of these trace minerals in Foods
unless you're close to the ocean now
what is the purpose of trace minerals
anyway well one of the purposes for
human health for TR trace minerals is
that they help to activate enzymes and
certain other proteins that do the work
of the Body for example there is an
enzyme that helps you convert from T4
the inactive version of the thyroid
hormone to T3 the active form of the
thyroid hormone and that enzyme is
dependent on selenium well guess what
where you going to get selenium you can
get in Brazil nuts but it's not
necessarily in other nuts of any
significant amount and uh you know what
do we have to eat we have to eat
shellfish or seafood or seaweed or like
sea moss to get this selenium selenium
not only helps you with the thyroid
selenium is necessary for certain
proteins to help you detoxify Mercury
selenium is necessary for your immune
system okay like if you don't have
enough selenium you cannot create the te
helper cells T helper cells are like the
general of the army for your immune
system they help control and coordinate
all the other immune cells in the attack
against
viruses and cancer and any other type of
pathogenic Invasion and so the problem
is it's hard to get these trace minerals
especially selenium from food unless you
eat something from the sea iodine is
also necessary for the thyroid and so
without iodine you can't make the
thyroid hormones but iodine is also
really really important to help regulate
estrogen and this is why when women are
deficient in iodine they might get
breast cancer or ovarian csts Japanese
women are much less at risk of getting
breast cancer and I really think it's
because the Japanese as a culture
consumes 25 times more iodine than the
US so I really think a lot of the
benefits from seos uh are coming because
finally the person is being satisfied
with the trace minerals which they've
been missing now it is true that sea
moss has kagin in and any seaweed that
has red in it is going to have some
kagene in there's a really big
difference in eating kagene that is
naturally in sea moss versus kinan that
they add to your you know almond milk
things like that so sea moss and even
sea CP is a great product not only to
help get the trace minerals which I
think is the number one benefit but also
some of these other phytonutrients that
create some health benefits that extend
Way Beyond just your normal vitamins and
minerals now since we're on the topic of
trace minerals there's a lot more to be
said about that if you haven't seen this
video check it out
