let's talk about what really causes
dandruff so you can completely get rid
of it once and for all the problem with
dandruff is that it kind of goes in and
out of remission for years and of course
they have shampoos they have topical
creams
they do include you know zinc and
selenium and coal tar but there's some
slight minor side effects like hair loss
hair thinning gray hair rashes so to get
rid of a health problem you have to
really understand it and the associated
pieces connected to it so let's kind of
go through the list seborrheic
dermatitis dermatitis is inflammation of
the skin and seborrheic has to do with
producing sebum which is the oil in the
skin so that gives us a clue because
there's also another thing about this
condition there's higher levels of a
very certain type of fungus that lives
on one thing and that is lipids which
are fats which is the oil in the
sebaceous glands so this very specific
fungus eats that whale 99 of all the
microbes in and on your body are
bacteria but you got one percent that is
combination of yeast fungus and other
microorganisms while this microbe is a
fungus so it does not die with
antibiotics and as you know another type
of yeast or fungus is called Candida and
you can get a big flare-up with candida
an unfriendly type of candida when you
take antibiotics now the issue with this
fungus with dandruff is that it creates
inflammation and with that inflammation
comes flaky skin but you always see an
Associated increase of oil being
produced by your sebaceous glands when
you have this condition which provides
the extra food to keep it thriving it's
also common in teenagers and then per a
lot of people who kind of goes away but
then it comes back after you reach 50
years old there's also a higher
incidence of dandruff in women who have
PCOS
polycystic ovarian syndrome there's also
a high associate having dandruff and
insulin resistance there's even a cream
that they use which is basically
metformin cream now metformin is all
about treating insulin resistance and
diabetes which is interesting and
apparently this cream also helps like
acne
psoriasis and even rosacea now if
metformin worked for this I was
wondering if berberine would work as
well because berberine has similar
effects but without the side effects and
of course when I search that yes there
is a berberine cream that does help with
dandruff because they say it's
anti-fungal so what is the common thread
with all these issues the answer is
insulin resistance okay when you have
insulin resistance you have high levels
of insulin high levels of insulin
increase
androgens and that's what's behind
polycystic ovarian syndrome that's
behind extra production of sebum the oil
and the sebaceous gland which provides
food for this fungus which then causes
this dandruff and it just so happens
that we get a spike of this sebum when
we're two years old also when we're
teenagers and women may have higher
levels of Androgen after menopause
because because they get this drop in
estrogen and progesterone but the
androgens don't drop nearly as much so
we have this ratio giving them more
androgens than these other hormones
which could explain the fact of a spike
of dandruff now if we look at metabolic
syndrome and what's really behind
metabolic syndrome which is a
combination of high blood pressure high
glucose and high triglycerides and
cholesterol you have as an underlying
cause insulin resistance so all of this
is really good information because the
way to get rid of insulin resistance is
simply going on the ketogenic diet as
well as doing intermittent fasting and
it just so happens that there's quite a
few people that I've observed that had
dandruff that went on keto and
intermittent fasting and they did no
remedies to their scalp at all that they
got rid of this dandruff so if you have
dandruff and you have not gotten on the
ketogenic plan and you're not doing
intermittent fasting I'm going to put a
link down below of exactly what this
involves but in the meantime if you do
want some remedy to help you speed this
process up I put that video up right
here check it out
