I want to give you my two cents on RFK
Jr's new potential role in being the HHS
secretary the target is to clean up the
corruption number two get back to
science-based evidence and number three
end chronic disease which is a pretty
big goal and I'm sure you're seeing this
all of the news all of the push back
that he's getting you have the big food
companies big chemical companies big
Pharma they really don't like him very
much and I just want to make a comment
on this one little thing that is quite
interesting it was said as a counter AR
argument there is no clear evidence yet
that disease is caused by processed food
do you know how ridiculous that sounds
this this it's not linked to chronic
disease what does cause disease and
their response is we don't know we need
to do more research as big food big
Pharma big chemicals get super wealthy
right what is the product of health care
it's a healthy body if we take the US
population and compare it to the world
we're at the very bottom when it comes
to health yet we spend the most for
healthcare over
$4.1
trillion every single year you can say
RFK junior is a quack antivaxer he's
going to take science Into the Dark Ages
you can pretty much just ignore that
there is many things that need to be
changed I want to give my two cents on
what I think would make a huge
difference all right number one
institutional foods and what they do is
they make prepackaged food that is given
to patient in nursing homes prisons the
school systems hospitals this is the
absolute lowest quality food on the
planet and even going into the hospital
I had two surgeries and I had to be in
the hospital for a couple days I mean I
just told them I wanted some protein and
they're like yeah we don't have much
protein it's like well I can give you a
protein bar I interviewed a gentleman he
actually owns and runs several very
unique assisted living homes you would
want to send your parents or your
grandparents there if they needed that
type of service because they do things
completely different and I asked him
what is the barriers of putting your
system in nursing homes and he said
there's just too much red tape it's
highly regulated as far as what they eat
and if you want to change a diet you
have to get the doctor to write a
prescription typically institutional
foods have desserts they have a lot of
starches it's highly processed is
overcooked the number one thing I would
do is I would change the institutional
Foods because that's going to change the
health of these people in the nursing
homes the Assisted Living all these
people would quickly improve of their
health just by removing the refined
sugars the refined starches and the
refined oils the seed oils the next
thing I would do and this is really
really big a lot of the food that we
consume in the grocery store is
subsidized in other words the taxpayers
are paying for it upfront or paying
certain large Farms to grow certain
things corn soy wheat sugar rice the
amount that some of these companies are
paid is up there around 600 billion the
largest subsidy is with corn you can buy
a cubic ton of corn for about
$198 and we're talking about not sweet
corn we're talking about Dent corn which
is not even edible we also use it in the
feed lots to fatten cattle we started
this whole subsidy thing right after the
Depression to kind of help the farmer
but somehow it stayed in law so now the
small farmer has a heck of a time making
a profit they're lucky if they get 1 to
3% profit and have to work really hard
at creating healthier food and they
don't get subsidies I think one really
good idea if we could just switch what
is subsidize and invest in the small
farmer pay these small farmers to grow
grass-fed grassfish animals I mean that
would be incredible because right now
the incentive is to grow the raw
material for junk food you pay for it at
the store and then you pay for it when
you go to the hospital I wanted to take
a pause to ask you for a little favor
with this new Administration there's
some new opportunities for healthare
practitioners to be leaders in the
health reform and I would love for you
to vote for me as one of the leaders and
I am super aware of the broken system
that we need to fix here's what you do
click the link which is down below
you'll have to create your own account
to vote you want to click sign up and as
soon as you have activated your account
go to the America's Health option click
on the Hot Tab find my name Dr Eric Berg
and click to vote and even leave a
comment down below thank you in advance
and let's go back to the video the next
thing I would definitely want to change
is this s called gross generally
recognize as safe you would think that
would be a third- party independent
study to show that that ingredient was
safe and the answer is no this is a
loophole that manufacturers use to
self-certify their own products it's a
bit of a conflict of interest I can do
my own studies to tell you that my
ingredients are safe a lot of things
that are banned now were generally
recognize as safe like lead DDT Mercury
stuff that they made your feelings with
most of these junk food ingredients are
grass the other thing I would do is I
would change how they're fortifying our
food instead of fortifying with
synthetic folic acid which actually
creates a big problem for about 30 to
40% of the population because they have
a genetic issue dealing with folic acid
I would change that to folate the type
of iron they put in fortified food is
disgusting it creates so many problems
our body does not have a good mechanism
to get rid of iron and all this iron
accumulates in our body too much iron
can actually cause dysfunctional iron
that leads to anemia the next thing 40
billion a year of your taxes are paid to
medical research for new drugs the
universities are allowed to get in
patents on those drugs and then they're
allowed to give exclusive rights to drug
companies and then the drug companies
and the universities negotiate for a
royalty between 1% and 10% of the net
profits and this license agreement is
very confidential and certain
researchers within the universities also
get a cut of that money that brings up
the next point the FDA has a revolving
door with big Pharma they should make it
a law that if you work for the FDA or
any type of regulatory business you can
never go work for a drug company or a
chemical company or a big food company
nine out of the 20 members that set up
the dietary guidelines had conflict of
Interest there's a great website on this
is called us right to know through the
Freedom of Information Act that got
880,000 Pages between Coca-Cola and the
dietician organizations and what they
found out is there's a really cozy
relationship between the two between 30
to $50 million given to the dietitians
from big food the junk food industry
sponsors dietitians education their
conventions they pay their speakers the
next thing that I would want changed is
this thing called the round rule if a
certain ingredient is less
than5 G it can be rounded down to zero
the same thing with carbohydrates also
sodium if you have less than 5 milligram
of sodium you can round it down to zero
out of all the ingredients that I would
hyperfocus on there are three
ingredients that make up 99% of all junk
food refined sugar refined starches and
refined oils as in seed oils I would put
huge warning labels on infant formula
pet food which is also filled with junk
food and I would force those companies
to upgrade the quality of those
ingredients the worst time to give
someone junk food is when they're a baby
because you're setting up that person's
life for all sorts of deficiencies and
health problems and lastly I want to
talk about a very important change Sun
phobia parallel with that rdas for
vitamin D are just ridiculous 600 I use
might be okay to prevent bone problems
Poss subbly but not to feed the other
systems of the body the immune system
the muscles the organs they
misinterpreted the results of a whole
bunch of studies and then they used the
600 IUS when in fact it should have been
over 8,000 IUS every single day a
vitamin D deficiency puts someone at a
very severe risk of virtually every
disease pick a disease and I'll show you
research on it cancer auto immune issues
your ability to sleep is dependent on
vitamin D if every person in the US took
just 8,000 I use every single day a
vitamin D3 disease rates would go way
down and it would not be that expensive
that's my two cents please tell me what
you think should be done about this
country to make a difference for
healthcare
