hey guys in this video I want to review
a paper that was suggested by a guy that
I just interviewed named Ivan Cummings
brilliant guy he's an engineer and he
sent me this link of this amazing paper
and I put a link down below so you can
get a copy of it too so this paper
revolves around the concept that when
you do gastric bypass you actually
correct high insulin even if the insulin
resistance remains okay so actually
doing gastric bypass can reverse type 2
diabetes among other diseases associated
with metabolic syndrome now a metabolic
syndrome typically is high blood
pressure high cholesterol diabetes or
prediabetes central obesity Harting of
the arteries that's typically what
metabolic syndrome is okay so this
observation has led researchers to
examine if these diseases were actually
caused by high insulin because if you
look up metabolic syndrome it always
will say high insulin or insulin
resistance is associated with metabolic
syndrome or these other conditions it
never gets into if it causes it okay
so they reviewed 423 publications but
only selected 58 because out of all
these publications only 58 measured
insulin so they wanted just to focus on
those and what they found is quite
remarkable they found high blood
pressure high cholesterol diabetes
atherosclerosis central obesity that's a
that's belly fat non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease polycystic ovarian
syndrome sleep apnea certain cancers 14
of them and cardiovascular disease all
shared a common etiology okay
etiology means that causes something in
other words it's pretty obvious that
high insulin causes all of these this
metabolic syndrome isn't some mysterious
disease that's complex it's purely just
a name describe these specific symptoms
I'm going to call them symptoms that are
all coming from high
insolence so let's just kind of go
through this in this section right here
they're looking at actual d function of
insulin and if you have too much insulin
what symptoms it creates right simulates
the sympathetic nervous system and
increases sodium or tension well that's
going to increase blood pressure okay so
it's a direct effect increasing PCOS
polycystic ovarian because insulin
increases androgens it also increases
something called foam cell formation and
giving you like a building up the plaque
in the artery that causes heart disease
that's coming from high insulin check
this it says hence patients with
hyperglycemia that's high sugar like in
diabetes or prediabetes inevitably have
a preexisting high insulin level
assuming their pancreas remains
functional so in other words you have
high insulin first and then you get high
blood sugars so traditionally high
insulin has been considered a response
to insulin resistance so they're
basically saying high insulin is a side
effect of his insulin resistance however
our previous findings suggest that high
insulin is primary in diabetes type 2
which means high insulin causes it and
insulin resistance is most likely a
secondary response by the cells so
basically you have high insulin and then
insulin resistance and then diabetes now
the problem is that you're never checked
for high insulin right you just they
never check that they're focusing on
blood glucose which is late on the chain
of events okay so then we get to the
discussion okay can increase insulin be
used as a clinical marker in primary
care setting for early diagnosis and
preventive care and would these markers
be more effective than glucose levels
I'm gonna answer that that's a big fat
yes okay yes we want to check insulin
first it's more important than even
checking your glucose levels number two
with pharmacological intervention that
normalizes
blood insulin levels before the
emergence of glucose intolerance and
hyperglycemia that's high blood glucose
be a beneficial
approach to hinder the progression of
metabolic disorders that answer is no we
don't want to use drugs we want to do it
with diet okay and finally they're
talking about why would we give people
insulin or medication that raises
insulin and diabetes type 2 if the cause
is high insulin after all we do not
treat hyperthyroidism with additional
thyroxine why are we treating a disease
associated with hyper insulin with
additional insulin so I think this
article is very valuable because there's
certain researchers now that are
starting to becoming aware of the
connection between insulin and so many
health problems so I put a link down
below check out the article and also
send this to your doctor so they can be
educated on some real interesting
invaluable information so I want to know
what you're interested in as far as a
future video click the link down below
and share some ideas I want to hear
