hey guys I'm back and today we're gonna
talk about chronic pain now being in
practice for 29 years being a
chiropractor I've had many many people
come in with pain I'm talking about tens
of thousands of people come in with
acute pain and most of them had chronic
pain whether it's in the foot the ankle
the knee the hip back the shoulder the
elbow neck head abdomen it could be in a
rib anywhere in the body so I have a lot
of experience dealing with chronic pain
and I'm gonna share with you some very
powerful things that you can do if you
have chronic pain but before we get into
it I want to make sure that you click
the red subscribe button so you could be
notified of all the very cool videos
that I'll be releasing in the upcoming
weeks and in addition to that you'll be
notified of the live Q&A sessions I'll
be doing throughout the week okay so one
of the most common reasons why people
have chronic pain is post surgery and
post injury when you get a surgery
whether it's from the back and the knee
or the shoulder you can develop scar
tissue that can come back to haunt you
years later if you have an injury same
thing happens the body heals with scar
tissue if I wasn't doing what I'm doing
now I would have chronic pain really bad
because I've had many many injuries that
I've had quite a few surgeries I have
treated people that were in serious
motorcycle accidents that were going
very fast and then hit a car hit
something and basically survived but
they are living with chronic pain I've
had other people parachute for example
and the chute one guy is chute didn't
even open and he landed in the trees can
you imagine the trauma from that I've
had people come in with tailbone
injuries that created all sorts of back
pain one guy was filling up his tank
with gasoline and he did not put the car
in park so as his car rolled away
because apparently it was on a hill he
tried to stop it and his foot got caught
underneath the tire and he ran over his
ankle and he had chronic pain for over
six years and you can also have pain
that's referred so if your gallbladder
is inflamed for example that can cause
pain in the right shoulder
and I'm gonna put a link down below of a
video that I just did on this so you can
get more data on a referral pain
diabetics have chronic pain especially
in the feet in the hands you can have
chronic pain from having an autoimmune
condition whether it's rheumatoid
arthritis or lupus there's many
different types of autoimmune conditions
that cause pain because autoimmune is
about inflammation and when inflammation
builds up that can cause pain and then
we have arthritis or severe stiffness
now as far as chronic pain goes there's
not a lot of exact knowledge on why
people develop chronic pain now there
are some theories out there but it's not
exactly known why but what I'm gonna
talk about and what I'm gonna give you
is my opinion on the subject but if you
get a treatment whether it's to a
chiropractor or a physical therapist and
you have to keep going over and over and
over then you might want to step back
and reevaluate and try something a
little different because either you
don't have the right problem or you
don't have the right solution however on
the flip side of that if you have a lot
of scar tissue and permanent damage
that's a completely different situation
but there are things you can do that
will give a person great relief I've had
patients come in that had chronic pain
so severe that they wanted to commit
suicide it was that bad now I have a lot
of videos right now on YouTube on very
specific parts of your body and what to
do I'm gonna give you a generalized
technique that you can apply to anywhere
in the body and then you can watch the
specific video to get more data on your
specific problem and there's also a
nutritional protocol that works very
very well so let's first talk about
post-surgery chronic pain and
post-injury chronic pain okay let's just
pretend that you have pain on the left
ankle right here from a surgery or an
injury okay let's say you're you're
putting gas in your car and you didn't
put in brake and you ran over here ankle
okay and you have pain now on the left
side right here on the outside all right
what you want to do is you want to work
on the opposite side over here you do
not want to work
in the area that you have pain if you do
you'll kind of retraumatization side now
this is definitely something that is not
taught in universities or colleges or
the schooling that I had I had to figure
this out on myself simply because the
way that they taught us didn't know his
work but it borders on magic as far as
its effectiveness okay so you work on
the opposite side so wherever it hurts
on this side you work on the opposite
side the first thing that you want to do
if you're doing this on yourself or a
friend or family member is you get them
to rate it on the scale from zero to ten
zero being no pain attending the most
severe okay you get a number let's say
it's an eight so what you do is they
have pain in the left ankle you work on
the opposite side okay what do I mean
work on the opposite side I mean use
massage slash acupressure so you're
you're pressing in different ways it
doesn't even matter the pattern that
you're massaging the area as long as
you're massaging the area on the
opposite side and when I say opposite
I'm talking about the mirror image okay
the exact opposite point now what's
interesting about this when you work on
the good side it's going to be extremely
tender when you press if you're getting
the exact spot where the injury or the
pain is coming from okay now at first
when you do this it's going to be very
very tender on the good side so you want
to go light and you want to gradually
increase pressure but never go too hard
you don't need to go very very severe
all you have to do is keep working on
this area before let's say one the two
minutes and then you have the person
re-rate their pain
it's gonna go down let's say it goes
down to a four okay but it's still there
so then what you do is you ask them okay
where's the pain now and they go oh it
moved a little higher or it moved in the
top part then you do the exact mirror
image on this side so you do the
opposite on that side okay and I'm gonna
put some links down below of me actually
do
you can see but you always work in the
opposite side now here's the other thing
that you're gonna run into when someone
had a injury in the past and they
especially if it's something the lower
part of the body and they're walking
they have set up a lot of compensation
going in their body to recruit muscles
from the opposite side because they're
limping a little bit okay so the muscles
on this side are going to work harder
than on this side and so you create this
asymmetrical gait and that alone can
create a lot of tension and imbalances
if you the person has pain on the
outside of this joint right here you're
gonna work on the opposite joint but
you're also gonna work on the muscles
that are a little bit higher than this
joint okay so you work on the calf
muscle or the shin muscle if it's on the
ankle if it's underneath the foot or a
toe same thing you're gonna work on this
muscle right here when you work on the
opposite muscle you're gonna be
releasing these very very tight cables
and a lot of spasm in the calf muscle or
the front part of this lower leg as
you're stripping away these muscle
spasms you're kind of you know massaging
it you can use oil or not be very very
gentle because these muscles are so
tight they're going to be very very
tender so step one you work on the
opposite us mirror image
step two you work on the muscles a
little bit higher than the injury on the
opposite side okay if the pain is in the
knee okay
you'd work on the opposite side of the
knee or if it's on the inside you work
on the inside of the knee or if it's on
the front part of the knee you work on
the front part of the opposite knee then
you work on the muscles up here okay and
you can just massage those muscles so
that's kind of a principle you would do
the same thing with the wrist okay you'd
work on this wrist and these muscles
right here if it was this elbow you'd
work on the opposite elbow and the
muscles up through here on the front and
back and when you do this you're going
to give the person a tremendous amount
of relief now realize it might take some
time to fully bring it down to zero but
you're gonna usually see significant
kid changes right off the bat and it's
quite magical
so that would handle the foot ankle the
knee the hip you would want to work on
the opposite hip okay
now the back you would want to work on
the front
okay the lower abdomen so wherever it
hurts on the back you work on the front
and just massage in there try to do the
mirror image so you can go you go side
to side left and right or front to back
and that will give the person a lot of
relief shoulder just work on the
opposite shoulder
now there's also this thing called
referred pain which you'll have to watch
other video but a lot of pain is
referred even chronic pain so if there
if the right shoulder is a problem it's
gonna be the gallbladder if that's the
left shoulder it could be the pancreas
or the spleen and you're just gonna have
to watch the video on that because if
you do the opposite shoulder and you
have no results suspect there's the
referral problem there's a problem on
the inside the body that's referring
pain to another part of the body now a
lot of neck pain comes from a digestive
issue it can also come from a whiplash
injury that's a little more complex so I
put some links down below of what to do
for whiplash because that involves
several other steps now head pain a lot
of this is referred from digestion
gallbladder but if you had an injury to
a part of your head let's say on the
right side you work on the opposite side
I did a complete video on this as well
you can check it out
now but a lot of people have had
injuries to the head now they have
chronic pain in their head and they
don't know what to do about it they're
gonna be happy that they watch this
video abdomen pain really relates to
food certain foods of the person's
eating that you're stirring up
inflammation creating bloating putting
the person in a constant inflammatory
State you need to get on healthy keto
and in a minute fasting for that and
that should help especially fasting and
so one of the most important things to
do for pain and inflammation is fasting
it's probably the most important thing
it gives the body a chance to
reset and alot of the referral pain that
people have pushing the shoulder the
neck the head seems to go away but even
if they have any of these right here the
inflammation will go down because one of
the things that happens when you're
fasting is inflammation just drops way
way down so if you have an autoimmune
condition you'd want to do fasting for
sure the most common type of pain with
the diabetic is pain in the feet and the
best remedy is something called
benfotiamine okay you'd want to take
higher doses of this like four tablets a
day or capsules a day and you'd want to
take spread it out through the day and
benfotiamine is a fat soluble vitamin b1
that is great for any type of nerve
damage coming from arthritis all right
so that's the technique part but as far
as the protocol goes you need to do
fasting okay you just need to do it to
see for yourself it'll be very very
effective if you're new to my channel
click the link down below check it out
okay stinging nettle root you can buy
this from the help of store it's one of
the most powerful remedies backed up by
some hardcore research as a pose
anti-inflammatory and it will help you
get rid of pain when I had really bad
arthritis I took it it worked like a
charm I would recommend getting the one
that is a freeze-dried stinging nettle
root you're not consuming the leaf
you're consuming the roots okay and then
vitamin D vitamin D is a natural
anti-inflammatory it's not really even a
vitamin it's a hormone that acts like
cortisol which is an anti-inflammatory
you need to take higher amounts 40,000 I
use a vitamin d3 okay so if you do that
each day and you're doing fasting and
you're doing stinging nettle root you'll
be in really good shape
alright guys there you have it that's
what you do for chronic pain
and if you haven't already subscribed
click the red button below and that
little bell icon so you can be notified
of all the new videos that I'm gonna be
releasing and I have some very cool and
interesting videos coming up in the next
coming weeks plus in addition to that
you'll be notified of the live Q&A
sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well so stay tuned for
more great content
