hey everyone I'm really excited to bring
you an amazing person a guest who
actually was spoke at my last Quito
summit Nadia pod iguana welcome
she's a naturopathic doctor and she also
works with Jason Fung who specializes in
a lot of things you know working with
the kidney in a minute fasting and so
welcome I want to actually the reason I
want to bring you on is that you wrote
in a book that I wanted to talk about
PCOS so I want to know what actually is
PCOS let's just talk about that first
thank you dr. Burke it's an honor to be
here again we did a podcast for you
summit and then I had the pleasure of
speaking at your summit about PCOS and
because that's usually what I speak
about although I do see people with all
kinds of different expressions of
metabolic syndrome but my little passion
my big passion is eCos so I would love
to talk to you about that thing and so I
wanted to thank you once again for
inviting me to speak with you today and
being at your summit and I got to meet
your lovely wife and being in your home
so thank you thank you again so what is
eCos first and foremost it's very
important polycystic ovary syndrome but
dr. Burke you'd be surprised that
probably a great majority of your
listeners know what PCOS is or at least
have heard of it so every time I do a
talk including at your summit which was
a huge audience by the way I asked all
of those people how many of you people
have heard of PCOS and almost I would
say at least 80% and remember that a lot
of the talks that we do do a lot of our
audiences are our medical professionals
up that's not the case at the Hedo
summit so it's not just that medical
professionals know of PCOS unfortunately
it's very common it is the most common
reproductive endocrine and surn hormonal
concern of women in the reproductive
years the most common okay if statistics
say between 80 to maybe 30% of all young
women so pre menopausal women have PCOS
polycystic ovary syndrome it might be
more it might be less I don't know to be
totally honest
diagnostic criteria is the best way to
diagnose PCOS but this is how it's in
diagnosed so basically let's go through
that what are the three diagnostic
criteria so two out of the three and
you're diagnosed with PCOS even though
polycystic ovary syndrome is a syndrome
it's a diagnosis of exclusion okay
meaning you have to rule out other
underlying at other possible conditions
right so there's certain hormonal
conditions that can mimic PCOS but
they're not PCOS so doctors are trained
because it's such a common condition to
what they're supposed to be trained to
rule out other conditions and when it's
not any of those then if you have two
out of these three expressions so one is
clinical expressions not necessarily lab
not not necessarily lab with clinical
expressions of high male hormones so
with all those androgens or hyper and
drogyny a-- so high levels of male
hormones and a woman and a lot of us
know what this looks like severe acne
hirsutism which is facial and body hair
grows and then male pattern baldness and
women right we're talking about women
and many there's actually many others
you could get very evening as a voice
you can get an enlarged enlarged
clitoris I mean this is it gets worse
and worse more of these free male
hormones you have going through your
body right clinical expression of high
male hormones because the lab
expressions are not best because
fluctuate throughout the day so it's
very hard to pinpoint but the clinical
expressions are very obvious nicely from
experience when I was in my 20s the
second thing is abnormal or irregular
period and/or ovulation right which is a
big concern we'll talk a little bit
about that and then the third is the
presence of these cysts that's why it's
called polycystic ovary syndrome the
presence of multiple cysts on the
ovaries on ultrasound so when the doctor
does an ultrasound
the technician does an ultrasound if you
have two out of these three and you've
ruled out other conditions there's a
list of conditions then you're diagnosed
with PCOS please note that no we're here
did we talk about obesity so weight is
not a diagnostic criteria or some other
related conditions okay so that's what
PCOS is very common as I said maybe
eight to thirty percent of all women
maybe even more that's a lot crazy very
debilitating okay so what do I mean by
this
imagine being 20 years old and a cute
young girl or young lady and having
facial hair and acting right not not to
say all these other things but there's a
lot of that in itself can be devastating
I went I could say 15 there's obviously
younger women with PCOS you can get
diagnosed with PCOS after puberty
although although it's very difficult to
diagnose PCOS in puberty because or
around puberty and adolescence because a
lot of these expressions or symptoms
aren't mimic natural puberty right so
it's diagnosed therefore they're not
getting treated early enough probably
right right it's common it's
debilitating it's very serious and why
is it very serious because it's
associated with many serious concerns
and this is what I hope to talk a little
bit with you today so as dr. Fung would
say and does say in that book that you
have there
if PCOS was just about a little acne and
a few missed periods and that wouldn't
be so bad I think it's pretty bad if
even if thou were it but it's not so
maybe we can talk a little bit about
that yes so there's there are many
consequences of having this condition I
would spike gas you tell me if I'm
correct or not but pregnancy if you're
pregnant you're trying to get pregnant
and you're not getting credit because
it's one of the symptoms is you're no
longer fertile and then you're taking so
you have this condition and then now
you're going to try to get pregnant
artificially or whatever
I mean what what are the consequences
well maybe you should probably talk
about what's really going on inside the
body that's causing this first just
thank you people a foundation yeah so
this is a great thing so that's what the
art book is about PCOS plan it's not a
doom and gloom and we're not here to
tell you okay this is the worst thing
ever and thirty percent of women have it
we're here to say that this is a
possibly preventable and reversible
condition that's why we're here right
that's why we're so passionate about
this and why doctor fun who's a kidney
doctor like you said why is he writing
about PCOS the reason why he's writing
about PCOS is because he's written the
obesity code he's written the diabetes
code he's written the complete guide to
fasting and now we know about PCOS and
we know it's an insulin resistant
condition we know just like diabetes
just like obese it's not the diabetes
causes PCOS it's not that obesity causes
PCOS I was very in I weighed 97 pounds
when I was diagnosed PCOS I was always
very good I'm still very thin and so
when I talk about this I find that this
is very important it is true that a lot
of women with PCOS have obesity a lot of
women with piece as well so it's like an
added thing and they have central
obesity in most cases I did right away
start to get the central Issa to even at
a very thin so meaning I had a higher
percentage of body fat even though I was
thin and I had fat around my organs okay
like why I expressed so many of these
things so quickly and so young I develop
diabetes right away I develop retention
right away so it's associated to all of
these conditions because it has the same
underlying problem which is high insulin
I for insulin emia which leads to
insulin resistance and again as dr. Fung
would say I'm always gonna quote him as
he would say if the problem is high
insulin and the solution is to lower
insulin and we know how to do that and I
remember saying this at your summit
where I said to when I talked about PCOS
I said how many of you know about PCOS
and everyone was like this and I said
but what if I told you you all already
know how to solve it and they do because
all of the your audience knows and
follows your your diet
your keto diet the low-carb diet with
intermittent fasting because I know you
talked quite a bit about it so all
everybody listening to us already today
knows how to help people with PCOS
because a lot of people put up their
hand and they don't have PCOS they have
a daughter or a sister or a friend
it has eCos I get messages all the time
I'm now getting messages dr. Berg from
friends whose daughters or stepdaughter
top PCOS already I'm 42 Wow incredible
mm-hmm so when you when you do research
and the medica the you know you type in
PCOS and Google right the first two or
three pages you're going to get the same
old same old by just the same old
narrative where they're talking about
weathers one of this one of the
characteristics of PCOS is or
associations is they have high insulin
but they don't connect the cause to this
condition so their inability to locate
cause and effect so it's really I mean
insulin and insulin resistance for those
of you that are maybe possibly new
watching this or let's say you're you're
searching and they're trying to find a
solution high insulin is underneath a
lot of problems when you get it checked
they don't really check for high insulin
going to the doctor they'll check for
high glucose and that's the high insulin
is not going to show up through the I
mean in other words you'll have high
insulin actually takes many many years
to raise the blood sugar so it's kind of
brewing the oven builds up and then one
day oh I'm a pre-diabetic so high
insulin is one of the first things that
actually occurs and the way to
understand this is just look at the
opposite okay what what what does the
diabetic what happens with diabetes what
happens when you have like with the
diabetic you want to actually lower
insulin and then you'll correct it so
you know it just like when you really
understand what happens with insulin and
how it affects men and women then it's
very very obvious but I think the
relationship between maybe you can
explain this why
do women have an increase of androgen
when they have high insulin what's that
connection I can explain that thank you
very much and I know that you like to
keep things simple and so do I so I
appreciate that but I did write a review
it's and I'm so happy that you said when
you look at the scientific literature
because I did write a review called for
the Journal of insulin resistance so
it's a review so it's very easy to read
which I like it's most easy to write as
well
but it's called the contribution of
hyperinsulinemia the hyperandrogenism of
women with PCOS so basically how much
does high insulin contribute to the high
the expression of high male hormones and
women that's what the title means and
that's what so basically what we find we
found that the in fact scientific
literature does connect the high insulin
to the high male hormone so it's there
they know it but yet a treatment which
is what you were just saying a little
while ago the treatment doesn't focus on
the root cause at all so when a young
woman or an older woman women of all
ages really they show up to their
doctor's office if they get diagnosed
with PCOS they're told it's common and
they're often just old to go away
there's not much you can do about it or
they're given a million medications for
a million different expressions so it's
a symptomatic treatment as we know right
very well they're treated for if if they
have acne like I did they're either
given the pill if they're young enough
or they're given an acne treatment
another bill to treat acne if they have
diabetes which I did they were given by
these medications if they have
hypertension they're given hypertension
medication if they're trying to get
pregnant like you said they're put on
fertility drugs and then if they have a
little bit of depression and anxiety
around this condition they're put on
that as well and I could go on and on
and on and then if they are one of the
many women to develop cancer associated
with this I did I had thyroid cancer and
you got to go through that treatment and
then you drug but they have to take
forever and ever right so the treatment
even though we have connected the dot
and I can explain to you what what's
going on basically there are these cells
in the ovaries called Becca's house
that produce testosterone so more in the
and our ovaries their way in there in
our bodies this is basically diabetes of
do overs as they call it our ovaries
have all these insulin receptors and it
makes sense that they do if you look at
I'm not gonna bore you but if you look
at all animals all animals have insulin
receptors in the ovaries it's a way for
the body to know inside if there's
enough nutrition out there for us to
make babies I guess it's a good sort of
conversation with the outside world
right the ovaries doesn't have eyes and
it's a way for the body to know if
there's enough nutrients to make babies
so there are a lot of insulin receptors
in the ovaries when you have too much
insulin it over produces testosterone
and you don't want that you and then the
insulin also has a major effect on our
liver we all know this but one other
thing that it does in the liver is it
reduces the production of another
molecule called sex hormone binding
globulin which is within a molecule that
binds his sex hormones so then again to
testosterone so it's a two-fold thing
not only are you over producing
testosterone in the ovaries but you're
under producing the molecule that's
going to bind to the testosterone and
make it inactive so now you have more
testosterone roaming around but you have
more active and free testosterone to go
around and do what you don't want it to
do all over your body so you don't want
it to go to your skin and your hair and
express itself as as it does in women
right if the male hormone expressing
itself in women and all of this is
because of the insulin this is in the
literature so if you want to have a look
at that if you like reading this kind of
stuff it's a review for the Journal of
insulin resistance well it's there but
the treatment doesn't focus on lowering
insulin it is devastating for a woman to
actually have lose their hair or the
facial hair they acne that I mean it's
it's a terrible thing when it's so easy
so when you understand the cause and
effect relationship now as far as things
that someone can do to lower insulin we
know lowering the carb low carb diet
will do it what are some other things
that people can do basically and this is
important right this is why words
much time talking about insulin because
mostly for like oh I don't want to hear
about that I just want to hear the
solution it's important that you
understand the root cause you important
I understand that would find a lower
insulin and that insulin is what's
causing all of these things in including
the obesity that might be associated
with it the central obesity like we
talked about it diabetes any infertility
and and possibly the cancers and
everything else but seems to dementia
Alzheimer's I mean I could go on and on
and I know you talk about all these
things so how do you lower insulin you
lower insulin in one of two ways you eat
less often because every time you eat no
matter what you eat you're going to
produce insulin it's important that we
drive this point home PCOS women do not
eat more so that eat less move more olds
calorie and calorie out theory is not
going to work and this is what's so
frustrating because most women are still
being told at their doctor's office you
have to you're overweight you have PCOS
you want to get pregnant or you want to
whatever
eat less move more they're not lazy and
they're not eating too much they're
eating too often they're eating too many
carbs eCos women have a lot of cravings
alike RB foods because their insulin is
high the higher your insulin this is
physiological there's nothing wrong with
up here I speak from experience my
entire life until I was in my 30s I
never ate a vegetable and I never ate a
piece of me I didn't like it I didn't
want it all I wanted was I have to
charge my before we shut off there you
go all I wanted Evert was carved it was
fruit bread pasta rice and any junk I
could get my hands on
lots of sodas lots of milk a lots of it
was just carbon carbon carbon carbon
carbon and I ate all the time why and I
see this in PCOS women all the time as I
had rebounding hypoglycemia and because
I was thin it was always the impression
that well she doesn't eat enough or she
doesn't you need more sugar and I
thought I - and because I kept Ethan I
didn't realize that all of that was
going into
my organs I just couldn't see it on the
outside so PCOS women even more often
and they graze a lot
they crave a lot so here's the concern
that I have so two things two ways to
lower insulin eat less often and eat
foods that are gonna create less of an
insulin response so higher healthy fats
appropriate amounts of protein and lower
carb so the ketogenic diet is perfect it
was perfect for me
that's the diet that I followed in my in
my journey okay
here's my concern he's your west woman
are smart too so what are they going to
do you're going to try to find
substitutes I can't have sugar I can't
have bread I can't whatever but they're
still craving the insulin is still high
when they start their journey
even if up here they're ready to go and
they have the information you're gonna
look for the substitutes they're gonna
look for the sweeteners they're gonna
look for the low carb breads and
everything else which is going to be an
issue because all of these things are
going to raise your insulin you have to
figure out how to eat in time restricted
eating windows you have to eat meals
that satiate you and you walk away you
need clean periods between meals this is
the most important thing in my opinion
so it's a combination of an appropriate
low carb diet with appropriate
intermittent fasting periods yeah I
think the secrets of this whole thing is
that just to let people know when you do
this your hunger your cravings go oh
wait and that makes it easy to do you're
not going to be struggling you're not
going to be like starving all the time
not at all
you'd be totally satisfied because for
once you'll be able to burn you in fat
which is a whole new concept yes Wow
so this one thing that's I like about
this book here and I'm going to put a
link down below I'm not even sure if
it's available yet for people but I'm
sure it will be soon but it's available
for pre-order and it comes out April 14
of 2020 okay cool well I'm glad I have
the one of the first copies you can you
don't alike you have a lot of diagrams
and you know I buy a lot of books and if
there's no pictures I'm like okay I'll
put that down I I need something with
the images you have a lot of diagrams
helps people understand quickly and you
can really visualize it so well done and
I know how hard it is to write a book
it's blood sweat and tears you know
you're in the over the computer for for
weeks and months and yeah so well done I
don't know how you had time to do that
well I wrote the book with Jason Jason 5
is an experienced author and he's very
he's got very high standards so I have
to tell you that it was a challenge and
experience that I highly appreciate
right exactly
you're happy that it's done and it's
completed and I could imagine but he you
know in the end he just wants a good
quality book he wants he doesn't want
you know just up whatever it has to be
perfect everything has to be perfect has
to fit in and so I'm very lucky to have
my first book may be my only book ever
who knows I have no plan of hiding
another one anytime soon Jason so I
appreciate it and I want to tell you
that you actually have you you I think
you might be one it's not first I don't
have a coffee I don't have a physical
copy I know you're excited I'm excited
this is it because it says an advance
copy and yeah yeah and this is uh yeah I
I think I have the only one actually I'm
in Portugal right I'm in Europe and
you're and I was asked who I wanted to
send a copy doing it as you know I
reached out to you right away so you
yours is the very first one that I have
seen
wow this is great I'm gonna save this as
time goes on it's gonna be worth a lot
more but I'm gonna keep it well I want
to thank you for coming on and sharing
this is going to help a lot of women
that are struggling through this just
realize this is not difficult to solve
if you have the true information it's
right in here
it's just there's a lot of books out
there that talk about PCOS and they
explain all the characteristics but they
don't tell you what to do damn just
solution so this is like you know what
there is something that can work for you
yeah I know as I said earlier I started
off pretty
but our book is all about exactly that
what's the problem then here's the
solution it is a practical guide it has
a lot of good information a lot of good
science there that people just can't
refute I hope and as I said if you go
into the scientific literature it's
there before we wrote the book I did the
review the review supported the writing
of this book really and so then there's
a real good practical while I'm very
proud of it I a practical guide because
it has recipes that has shopping list it
has all kinds of stuff so you probably
haven't gotten to that yet it's a very I
did say that and I was like wow they
have boy you guys just went all out and
just put everything in here this is
awesome because there isn't it I don't
know but there you know at least in my
research for four years really there
really isn't anything out there like
this specifically even though a lot of
people speak about PCOS in their
pictures I find a lot of doctors talk
about insulin resistance whenever they
have diagrams insulin insulin resistance
in the middle and they have little
bubbles going out there's a diabetes
obesity cos is always there fatty liver
or sleep apnea it's always there but I
don't know I guess I lived it right this
is like I had two children thanks to
reversing PCOS well maybe we get to talk
about what happens if you get pregnant
with PCOS and you don't reversal what
you thought we did about that okay yeah
it's very important and I will have to
do another one of these just on
pregnancy because oh my gosh this is
like that's the most important time to
make sure your health and your diet is
correct because that predicts the future
of that child's health it really does
you you better know what you're doing
are you going to be struggling with all
sorts of issues and so the child so we
we my daughter-in-law lives with us
and so she we made sure her diet was
really really clean so this child Lucy
came out like a super baby I mean just
incredibly healthy yeah she does get
sick of cage
but she's building up your immune system
she pops out of it like that but talk
about a healthy child so I'm gonna be
doing more videos on that but I want to
thank you for your time and I think a
lot of people are gonna be helped I put
the link down below and the PCOS plant
awesome thank you so much you're welcome
