so anyway you um you came here cuz your
knee was killing you you had swelling I
looked at your foot so this thing right
here uh you were a little embarrassed
yes to come in here cuz you maybe you
thought that I was you were too bad I
wasn't going to work on you yes I
thought if I come with the Walker inside
the office doctor going to say you have
too much problem sugar high blood
pressure choster please go out from this
office then I I was hiding but I was
crying and I say doctor I'm I'm in pain
I'm dying he said don't worry we going
to fix it today and he did so so do you
really need this anymore no I'm going to
Rend it to hospital so this thing we
just need to get this out of here um
because you came from your sister from
Germany right and both of you were
diabetics yes uh right now um the doctor
is actually lowering your medication I
think your sister doesn't even she's not
even taking medication anymore and her
blood sugars are 106 106 and then you um
for the first time last night what was
your blood sugars when you woke up uh
104 this number was I was looking more
than few years I never have that number
because always when I woke up it was
210
25 but right now exactly my blood sugar
is and I feel better you know that is
the point I feel much lighter I don't
have any more headache wow now what
about your sleep last night oh doctor I
don't want to wake up this morning I was
complaining I want to stay one more
night oh my gosh yeah and then you're
you're you're walking so your your
swelling is better my you can then
actually next day my sister told me ER
I'm sure your all pain is gone I said
not all pain but more than half a pain I
don't have that much pain and I feel
much better I took shower and you know
doctor I just I want to tell I love you
I love you too thank you um the other
thing too is that you've tried a lot of
things to lose weight yes in the past 10
years I've been H I went to Weight
Watches yeah and was good but it was for
temporary then I took the Dr Atkin uh
program just Proto
doesn't work for me doesn't work because
everybody losing weight except me and I
didn't know why I have too much water in
my body and I didn't know what's that
doctor explained to me and I'm learning
I said today I think I finished the
university I learn lot of thing about
this course see one thing I really I
really like is um is I I really love
that you're um you're understanding the
why not just what to do but the
understanding of the body cuz our whole
message is to get you to understand how
your body works and to make you be able
to control your own body rather being
dependent on pills and medication so
that's really the goal is to educate
re-educate you on the truth about it and
then to to get you healthy that way
you'll never end up on this I think your
sister is showing you a question or
something um because inside the mirror
she show me today how much water
came from my body and she's right after
I'm wearing these pants and these pants
is too big for me she told me believe me
you lost lot of water from your body and
I'm sorry myself I know everybody I know
everything except my body and right now
I learn about my body I read book I as
the question this is really changed my
life and I'm so so so glad I'm here I'm
thanksful to God and I'm thanksful to
the good doctor thank you so
much doctor you don't know how much my
sister was praying for you last night
you don't know it's doctor it's
unbelievable good you go to doctor
doctor said you high blood pressure you
know doctor my blood sugar was before
you are not going to believe me 11
11.8 and I asked my doctor that's since
A1C A1C oh wow and he said I'm sorry I
cannot do anything because go do
something every day they said add to
medication and I came home and I was
crying and I said my husband I'm going
to die because this blood sugar is too
high but right now you save our
life thank you and I'm so glad I'm here
I'm so glad I'm here thanks God thanks
God for this opportunity for me and for
my sister that's fantastic you're
leaking all your electrolytes out now
you're going to be
dehydrated okay thanks so that was a
great case study we'll see you in the
next video
