hi guys today we're gonna talk about
adrenal insufficiency and a low cortisol
I have a lot of videos on the adrenal
gland and cortisol I put some links down
below there's a lot of information on
this but I'm going to talk about a
condition called Addison's which is an
autoimmune condition and what causes
that now the interesting thing about
this condition is that the gland the
outside the glad you have the dream you
have two adrenals you have an outside
and an inside and the outside of the
gland has to be about 90% destroyed
before you really start seeing the major
complications so by the time you have a
full-blown Addison's that gland is
pretty well destroyed and you're not
able to output cortisol and several
other hormones so there are a lot of
different symptoms but the main are
fatigue weakness weight loss okay when
you have high cortisol
you'll actually gain weight low cortisol
you actually lose weight you can't sleep
salt cravings like crazy if you have low
cortisol adrenal insufficiency you need
to be consuming a lot of sea salt and
you don't want to be consuming a lot of
potassium especially if you're not
taking enough sea salt you need some
potassium but the more potassium you
have the less sodium you're gonna have
because they work on kind of a
teeter-totter so if you take potassium
you better be taking sea salt as well
also you have no tolerance to stress
you're highly irritable and your body
just doesn't have that cortisol to
counter stress cortisol is a fascinating
hormone it helps the body to respond to
stress all stress states it has like 200
different functions but this is one of
them right here in different organs and
different situations also it helps your
blood pressure when the cortisol is low
your blood pressure will go low when the
cortisol is high your blood pressure
tends to go high it also will slow the
immune response so it's an a good
anti-inflammatory it suppresses
the white blood cell and this is why in
autoimmune conditions in factions and
all types of pain and arthritis itching
allergies they use prednisone or
cortisone shots because that suppresses
the immune system and the next one
encounters insulin so think about this
right here okay so we have our blood
sugars right here we eat some food okay
insulin kicks in right here and pushes
down the blood sugars now it's not
really good to have excessively low
blood sugars so chorus all comes in
there to help your survival because that
would be a stress and will start to
elevate this pledge sugar to keep it up
through here by releasing sugar and
turning protein into sugar that's what
it does so it actually prevents
encounters hypoglycemia it brings the
blood sugars back here the problem if
it's too high okay it'll actually raise
your blood Sugar's way over here and
kind of nullify insulin to some degree
and keep your Sugar's high and then
creates more insulin production and you
go become a diabetic but when you have a
low cortisol you don't have this
countering effect so you can end up with
hypoglycemia so you have a lot of
problems with that now what causes
Addison's
well several things number one is TB
tuberculosis okay that's a big one I
don't know if you knew this but 25
percent of the population has TB and 90
percent of them actually have no
symptoms this bacteria lies dormant and
it can kind of be getting reactivated
later in life so only ten percent of
this group have the symptoms and the
most common symptoms chronic cough blood
in the mucus fever night sweats weight
loss and the primary target for TB is
the lungs but it can also go in other
places as well in fact the number one
cause of death from infections is from
TB when you have TB you usually are
always have low vitamin D so taking
vitamin D is one of the best remedies to
deal with TB and I would recommend
taking at least 20,000 IU's maybe 30,000
maybe even 40,000 that would be a very
good thing to do also when you have
honest UNS you're also gonna have low
vitamin d2 so vitamin D can act like
cortisol so it's not even really
considered a vitamin it has hormone
qualities and it acts like cortisol so
vitamin D is really vital for anyone
with an adrenal insufficiency or a
little chorus all situation also taking
B vitamins especially b1 very important
for stress and that brings up another
cause of Addison's is stress or trauma
could be physical it could be mental
stress a sudden loss but it's usually
some type of huge shock to the system
where the adrenal glands can shut down
now the other thing is when you're
taking prednisone over a long period of
time that weakens the gland and then you
can actually end up with with that
condition also if you are taking
prednisone or cortisone for a period of
time and you stop taking - suddenly that
can actually induce this condition -
funguses can also cause honest ins and
the last thing I want to mention if you
have adrenal insufficiency or low
cortisol you need to be consuming a lot
more sea salts okay way more than an
average person because you're losing the
salt and you're always craving salt
because you need to solve to keep the
volume the fluid there you need to salt
for your electrolytes and your body
there's many many purposes for that
alright and the last thing I want to
show you is a great technique and I'm
going to teach you that can help you
with your stress so let's kind of roll
right into it
alright we saved the best for last okay
so what we're going to do these points
are a problem for everyone the adrenal
glands are deep very deep on top of the
kidney deep in the abdomen okay so we're
not we there's no way we can contact the
adrenals however there's a lot of
acupressure points around this there's a
lot of nerve points around the adrenals
in this area and in Chinese medicine
there's acupressure points
go right along the side we're gonna be
kind of tapping into that and releasing
a lot of the stress in this area around
the adrenals so her belly button is
right here okay so we're gonna just go
right to the right of it her right and
down about an inch and we're gonna press
down in here now this is I'm showing you
how to do it on someone else but we're
going to show you how to do it on
yourself so I like to take my thumb in
my middle finger again I'm not flipping
you off and I'm gonna press down in here
to her tolerance and I'm actually trying
to find some tenderness this isn't too
bad
so if I don't feel any tender so I'm
going to kind of sneak up a little bit
and I'm gonna do all these points up on
this line about an inch off the midline
okay so we're gonna come in here press
in here and I'm going to go to the left
and to the right a little bit just to
kind of find these stress pockets you
can't see them if I can find these yeah
there's a couple right here and then
once I find it I'll just hold it for a
little bit until it releases and what
I'm doing is I'm extracting stress from
this area of your body and this produces
some really cool effects relaxation
sleep like I've had people had the best
sleep in their life so this is a really
important area of the body that like no
one works on so now as I'm coming up to
the right side you do have the
gallbladder on the right side but that's
kind of tucked through this area
you're not going to it's not going to be
a problem when you press on that you
just have to press to the tolerance of
the person so you're not going too deep
because it could be sore again work
that's why I'd like to have you do this
on yourself so you can adjust the
pressure so you're not you know going
too deep so some people say well is it
dangerous to press in your abdomen I'm
like no why would it be was it dangerous
to press in your muscle in your thigh I
mean you have a layer of fat okay and
you also have I didn't mean to say that
everyone has like a layer of fat and
then organs are tucked in there with a
lot of connected to
and I've been doing this for like 29
years and it's not a problem it's pretty
safe get in there but like you massage
your muscles but how many times do you
work on the the muscles in the urine and
your in your abdomen like rarely and
some of the organ like the kidneys and
the liver points I mean people never
work on these points but I'm coming
through here right up through in here on
this side and I do find some some
tension I'm just going to press on that
a little bit until it releases and of
course I'm going a little bit faster
than I normally would because sometimes
I'll spend maybe two or three minutes
just on the right side how does that
feel does it feel uncomfortable yeah
okay good so now I'm going to go to the
opposite side and press on that now if
the person has low back pain what you do
is you press on the exact opposite side
on the front BAM gone so you want to
find out where it's hurting on the back
like just draw a line right through it
and press in the front it gets rid of a
little back pain like that so on every
one you're gonna find like one or two
points that are really really tight and
then you'll work on those more
aggressively so I'm gonna press in here
and just kind of work that out and and
some people it would be very very tender
so you want to go kind of light on them
some people have a lot up they have a
huge belly you can still do this but you
will because you're working on the
superficial points more than anything
that connect because an acupressure
point you know an acupressure point is
okay an acupressure point is an area on
the surface of the skin that kind of
connects on the inside you have all
these electrical circuits so it's kind
of like a switchboard I can press this
point and it can affect inside does that
make sense
are you sure
are you good so it's working so so a lot
of these are nerve points kind of you
could look at like nerve points because
they really are so acupressure points
our communication channels if you if you
take a look at the nervous system being
the freeway the acupressure points are
the side roads so they're just other
forms of communication that you can
affect like right through and here this
is a good one and you if you think about
that last time you were stressed I will
guarantee you have a lot of tension in
your abdomen after that and you'll feel
like why is it so hard on them because
you have the adrenaline the adrenals
pumping a lot of hormones and then it
tightens up all the muscles you start
working on that it gets rid of stress so
what we're doing now is we're handling
she's sleeping now we're handling
physical stress that is stuck in your
body for years I mean probably what 30
years 35 years now you have some people
that have never experienced stress in
their life and I'm like if you live on
planet Earth and other people have
experienced a tremendous amount but if I
keep doing this and I'm just holding
these pressure points like I'm trying to
keep a broad content I'm not like
digging it like like looking how wide my
thumb is okay I have huge thumbs so that
comes in handy
so but if you have this little tiny
thumb that could be it's like sticking a
little thing and there it's gonna could
irritate the area so you want to keep a
broad contact almost like take your two
fingers and kind of separate them out
and press in there and okay good good so
now you ready for a nap okay good so
let's bring the next person up thank you
very much
okay so just relax your arms right here
where's your belly button right there
okay so we're gonna just start and again
one inch off the midline taking my two
fingers and you can use your thumb or
several fingers to equal the size of the
thumb if you even if you don't have a
thumb like mine and come right in there
and we're just gonna work out he has
some tension in here have you ever
experienced trust before okay it's a new
concept for people but right through
there so we're just gonna press in there
and again I'm watching the eyeballs
to make sure they don't pop out cuz I
don't want to press too hard and then so
each time I do this I might do it a
couple times a week or maybe once a week
each time I do this I'm gonna feel like
less and less tension to the point where
I go right in there and like there's
nothing there's no resistance so that's
the goal so it if you can do it on
yourself I would do it every night
before you go to bed I'm going fast for
time but I wanted to see if there's any
let's see right through in there that's
a ton of a tight spot right there okay
now I'm gonna do the opposite side if
the right side is not sore chances are
the opposite side will be sore it's
always going to be one or the other so
if you find that there's like one or two
points that's all that you find that's
constantly sorted those are the points
that you're going to focus on so that's
this kind of an example now let's say he
was going to do it to himself he'd used
this torture I mean treatment device and
it has these longer prongs and the
shorter ones you want to use the long
one you'd want to have him grab the tool
and now we're going to position this
this little thing right on this point
okay so I want you to kind of press just
like like I like you felt me doing it
and tell me if you can feel the same
kind of pressure yeah feel that well
yeah just start start with one point and
just press in in there does it feel
similar yeah okay and the reason why it
feels similar is because I developed
this tool after my thumb for myself
because like I was the last guy to get
treatments I never got treatment so I'm
like I'm gonna do it myself so I
developed this device that mimics my
hand because we're gonna show you the
neck points as well and we just come in
here and then he would before it goes to
the bed right he's in his bed he puts
this point on there let's and try to
actually get through all of it without
falling asleep but by the time he gets
all the way to the top I mean so many
times I'll wake up and I'm like oh wow
where's that device it's right next to
me I almost rolled on it like I
literally fall asleep but while I'm
doing this because it's releasing a lot
of stress is it creating any effect on
you yet yeah yeah it's interesting how
it gives people so much relief I get I
think because you have a kidneys in
there you have the solar plexus which
are all these nerve connections you have
all these connections to the adrenal
points you have the gall bladder the
digestion you probably have you heard of
the flight or fight mode have you heard
of the fight okay
it's called the sympathetic nervous
system that's like this stress mode then
you have another system and I'm going to
give you this big word it's called in
Tareq and that's part of the system
that's below your awareness that
actually runs all your digestion and
that's really another system that we're
tapping into right now we're actually
stimulating it to relax a lot of stuff
that's going on in your gut nerve wise
can affect your head like if you ate the
wrong thing and you feel bloated you're
gonna feel funky in the head how many of
you experienced it yeah so your
digestion can affect your mood
big-time there's a connection so when
you release the tension in your gut
especially if you have like IBS or
irritable bowel syndrome or inflammation
that creates like spasms it gives you a
lot of relief in the head now when we
come up to these points right through in
here like on his right side it's a
little sore right yeah so now you just
the pressure so it's just right for you
he's hitting something called the
phrenic nerve that goes right to his
diaphragm up to the right neck he's
gonna release all the right neck tension
so the more he does this point here he's
going to have like less tension on the
right side up here even like headaches
will go away on the right side shoulder
stuff so anything right here will
remember side right here if he does the
other side he'll actually rule that
releases the other side here okay how
does that feeling really good okay good
so now he'll do the other side here take
your belly button and just go right to
the side of it and you want to go see
how I'm rocking left and right and you
just find the spot find the sweet spot
where it's like ooh that's a little
thing that's smarts and you just now
don't do this with a knife okay don't do
that with a sharp object use it the
massage tool that I'm just joking
delayed humor here but you know you want
to use something that's kind of like a
dull point and okay and then you just
kind of inch up a little bit
little sore so this is something he
would need to do every single night and
to the point where there's no soreness
and he would find that his ability to
relax like recently I saw this so I was
watching this movie it was Lincoln I
mean here's a guy who his dad beat him
growing up his mom died I think his
sister and his brother died and then his
first why our first love died and then
his several of his kids died I mean like
can you imagine how many losses this guy
had right and then he becomes the
president which is a no-stress job I
mean he was I think I'm 53 he was like
53 he looked like a grandfather he was
look old so stress believe it or not
does age you I'm gonna put some years
give you some gray hairs especially if
you have kids
so this basically kind of pulls the
stress out so you can go back in the
life and recharge and start over again
because you don't want to just keep
carrying the stress around your home
life might as well kind of have a blank
slate clean it out because our bodies
are sponges and we'd pick up stress I
think he's actually asleep did you fall
asleep did you fall asleep yeah see it
worked and he did it to himself I didn't
do anything yeah so this is a really
amazing so a lot of you guys watching
already have the tool because I actually
hear the success if you don't have this
tool you need to get it because I fly
everywhere I go I travel I bring it with
me and the plane I do my neck points
because you sit on these these these
little I mean you flew to California
right and you're trying to lift your
neck get this thing out sit back and
just kind of just like I love it
people like where did you get that can I
borrow that and like now
I'm like I'm gonna keep it on my neck so
it's good for that and also for jet lag
because you can actually work on these
points and kind of rejuvenate yourself
okay then we come to this point come to
this point right go right through in
here got a little sore yeah yeah and
then he's gonna work on that and then
what'll happen is you're gonna feel like
you're gonna take layers of this stuff
off and it could take a while and if you
had like a fight with your spouse you
could find that you can like put the
stress back in but at least you have the
tool to pull it out no you have the tool
as not as a weapon but as a therapy to
help yourself
so you can sleep so you're not thinking
about it all night long or you can throw
it in - yeah it's plastic it won't break
don't worry about it I'm just kidding
you don't want to throw it on your
spouse okay good so now tell me just sit
up for me for a second face the camera
how do you feel a little light-headed
but I feel a lot better
yeah do you feel like stress more
stress-free yeah a little more relaxed
yes that is the goal thank you we did it
okay appreciate it
and if you haven't already subscribed
click the red button below and that
little bell icon so you can be notified
of all the new videos that I'm gonna be
releasing and I have some very cool and
interesting videos coming up in the next
coming weeks plus in addition to that
you'll be notified of the live Q&A
sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well so stay tuned for
more great content
