hey guys Dr Burg here in this video I
want to share with you two very very
important indexes uh the glycemic index
versus the insulin index now I'm just
going to pretend you've never even heard
about this one so just to keep it really
basic so the glycemic index is the scale
of foods that has influence over your
blood sugars within two to three hours
so there's certain foods like jelly
beans for example that you eat that you
trigger a lot of sugar response or a lot
of sugar in your blood it spikes up okay
and so that would be very high in the
scale but eating celery which is a
carbohydrate does not create that same
effect okay that would be low on the
scale and that's the glycemic index it
has to do with how fast carbohydrates or
sugars turn into or affect the blood
sugars okay and you have different
things to alter that like U like uh
fiber you know how much sugar that is in
that carbohydrate that type of thing
then the insulin index is all those
non-carbohydrate
foods that affect insulin okay so in
other words when you eat sugar you
trigger insulin but there other foods
that you eat that won't
necessarily they're not sugary foods but
they do trigger insulin okay so we're
going to explain that now here's the
thing insulin is the hormone that
regulates blood sugars it tends to lower
blood sugars in the presence of insulin
it's almost impossible to lose weight so
our goal is to have a low insulin low
sugar situation okay so check this out
so we have the glaic index so really
high in the scale would be like just
plain sugar and then potato is very high
in the scale so this turns into sugar
really fast um white bread is high whole
wheat bread is is just like a point less
it's not any it's almost equivalent so
if you're thinking you're eating whole
wheat bread and it's not turning into
sugar very fast it's actually very high
in the scale I think it's like
74 uh so it's pretty high so now low on
the list and by the way I created links
below so you can see the whole scale on
both of these scales so that's why I
didn't want to write it out so we have
low on the list peanuts is very low I
think it's like a it's like a 14
something like that so that's pretty low
and then hummus is a six so hummus would
be a very low glycemic thing to consume
good snack to eat okay so that's just
kind of that now let's take a look at
this insulin index and this might
surprise
you very high in the list is whey
protein powder so whey protein is very
lowfat very lean and that will trigger
insulin pretty high and then we even
have lean beef will also trigger insulin
okay now this is kind of goes against
what you've been told but that's very
high in the scale and then as we go down
the list egg whites because it's less
fat is higher in the list egg yolks are
lower on the list it creates less of an
insulin response and then butter bacon
is even lower so my point
is when people are trying to lose weight
what do they do they avoid the fat and
what do they eat more protein but they
have to understand the scale right here
fat actually will buffer and lower the
insulin effect so if you were going to
have some beef make sure it has some fat
in it because fat is one of the things
that is almost neutral when it comes
down to insulin and it doesn't turn into
sugar yes it has calories but it doesn't
create the effect on insulin so it's
great for diabetics so here's the
confusing part if protein triggers
insulin which is a fat making hormone
then why do people lose weight on
protein okay and that is because these
proteins also trigger the fat burning
hormones like glucagon and growth hormon
okay so that's why that can work but the
the the thing to remember is that we
want to keep insulin low to actually
enhance the weight loss process so if
you were going to have protein don't go
so lean add some fat to it make sure
it's not so low fat if you're going to
have eggs have the whole eggs not just
the egg whites and I think you're going
to lose more weight and you're actually
going to be healthier doing that okay so
I just wanted to kind of summarize what
these indexes are and have the links
below low so you can go ahead and study
those and go ahead and apply this
information the goal is to keep insulin
low and it just so happens that the only
foods that don't really trigger insulin
that much are the fats the exact foods
that people have been avoiding
