i want to talk about ketosis and
pregnancy
is it safe sometimes you hear this idea
that going on a ketogenic diet is
not healthy for someone who's pregnant
or breastfeeding let's take a look at
the data the conventional school of
thought is that we all need to be on
at least 175 grams to 300 plus grams of
carbs every single day and that includes
women who are pregnant they
someday i'm going to find out who they
is
recommend 45 to 65 of all your calories
should be carbohydrates also they say
that ketones could affect the fetal
brain development so i kind of pulled a
string on this to find out where this
came from and it really was based on one
study in 1969
that measured
the urine ketones
not the blood ketones at one time not
multiple times during labor okay it
wasn't tested throughout the entire
pregnancy it was just tested during the
labor and this is correlated somehow
through the child's iq of course there
was no follow-up studies to confirm the
outcome but here's the thing my wife uh
gave birth to three kids she went
through an average labor lasting i don't
know some somewhere between 15 to 20
hours each okay but i want to tell you
when a woman goes through labor uh she's
not usually hungry in fact she usually
does not have an appetite she's usually
either in some serious pain or feeling
nauseous but she's usually not eating
when she's going through labor now when
you're not eating guess what you're
generating ketones okay so that's really
where that's coming from
in fact as a side note
all of you women watching right now make
a note down in the comments section and
tell me what you ate while you were
going through labor if anything so
that's what this whole concept is based
on this one
study it's actually very natural for a
pregnant woman to make ketones even more
ketones than when she's not pregnant
even if the carbs are a bit higher what
you have to realize is that ketosis
especially nutritional ketosis it's not
diabetic
ketoacidosis which is a completely
different thing where you don't take
your insulin and you have massively high
levels of blood sugar
and very high ketones and your urine is
very acid and your blood starts becoming
very acidic that is completely different
than what happens when you're pregnant
the problem with pregnancy and doing a
high carb diet is that you increase the
risk of gestational diabetes and you
greatly affect the health of that child
down the road it is vitally important to
eat extremely healthy and not to overdo
it with those carbs when you're pregnant
anyway if you haven't seen my video on
what to eat if you're pregnant
i put that link down below so if you're
enjoying my content which i hope you are
and you're applying this knowledge to
your health
and you have a success i'd really
appreciate you sharing your success
story so click the link down below to my
website where you can upload your
success story so you can help inspire
others
