now what if I were to tell you that
saturated fats are not as bad as they
say they are would you believe that
comment down below I'm curious what your
thoughts are so after this video I think
you may shift your viewpoint on these
saturated animal fats because without
them it's very difficult to create
Health all of your fat cable nutrients
can be gotten from saturated fats and I
did a whole video on this if you if you
haven't seen it I'll put the link down
below but these fat I nutrients are
crucial for creating so many positive
changes to your body number two your
immune system will function much better
when you consume enough of these
saturated animal fats I mean let's just
take vitamin A which is so important for
viruses okay and then what about vitamin
D essential for your immune system and
so going low fat will weaken the immune
system number three and this is the
biggie child develop vment okay as a
woman who's pregnant okay it's so
important to consume enough saturated
animal fats to provide the nutrients
that this growing child needs especially
when you're pregnant and when you're
lactating vital vital vital and so this
provides all the raw material that this
child needs as well as the trace
minerals and the B vitamins and
especially these fat soluble nutrients
the worst thing that a mother could do
with the child is actually going a
lowfat diet not a good idea all right
number four your skin is a combination
of protein and fat and so without the
right fats your skin is going to look
older it's not going to look useful if
you want beautiful youthful skin as you
age you definitely do not want to Omit
this from your diet the same thing with
your hair if you're going lowfat it's
going to be dried up brittle and not
look
vibrant all right number five brain did
you realize that most of your brain is
mainly fat and cholesterol and so you
need DH which is an omega-3 fatty acid
for cognitive function um what was that
U memory Focus concentration okay all
right number six saturated fat reduce
and release bio salts the very thing
that you need to help break down fats is
actually made from cholesterol and
that's where bio from cholesterol and if
you don't consume enough saturated fats
you're not going to release enough bile
in fact one of the symptoms of a lowfat
diet is gallstones what's gallstones
that is a deficiency of bile that causes
this cholesterol to crystallize and get
really
concentrated so we need fat to help the
release of this biome all right number
seven calcium absorption that's vitamin
D right with without vitamin D your
absorption of calcium can go down by 20
times all right number eight fat in your
food allows you to be satisfied so you
can actually do intermittent fasting
much more efficiently without enough fat
in the diet you're always just going to
be hungry all the time um all right
number nine your hormones the sex
hormones estrogen progesterone
testosterone also cortisol all is made
from fat
okay so without that fat you're not
going to have the raw material to make
these hormones all right your mood is
affected by certain hormones that are
made from fat when people go on Lower
fat diets or less animal products I do
know that they get more anxiety they get
more depression I'll put some links down
below so you can see that link number 11
your bone health why because vitamin D
is a fat cable nutrient and you need
need that to prevent osteoporosis
osteopenia and osteomalacia which is
softening of your bones as well as
rickets all right 12 your gut health if
you have a gut problem whether it's
inflammation or an autoimmune disease of
your gut and you have digestive issues
bloating all that and you just stay away
from these animal fats okay you stay
away from animal Foods oh my goodness is
your gut gonna be inflamed even more so
one amazing thing to do if you have an
autoimmune condition of your gut is to
increase the fat okay not as much
protein moderate protein but more fat
and you're going to notice that your gut
is going to feel really good A lot of
the bloating will go away I remember
having a tremendous amount of gut issues
uh actually in my late 20s and all
through the 30s and it wasn't until I
started to increase more fat I remember
eating like hamburger and and meats and
stuff with more fat I was like why
doesn't my stomach hurt anymore it felt
so good so in other words you may find
that your gut responds way better to
animal fat than any other thing that you
can eat now before you leave I just have
to share this one thing with you which
is actually quite fascinating okay um
there's this thing called the eat Lancet
commission uh this group that um wants
to basically get the entire planet to um
eat in a certain way okay and they have
a lot of scientists lined up and they
have this whole agenda and it's mostly
political but this is what they're
recommending and you're going to hear
more and more about this which all I'm
going to say is just don't drink the
Kool-Aid because it's totally not based
on any science at all and I'm going to
put some links down below so you can see
that uh it's not just me that's
refuting this information it's some
incredible scientist okay so this is the
plan this is the diet they they want to
put everyone on okay let's start with
saturated fats they want you to consume
no more than
11.8 grams of saturated fat okay that's
96 calories all right that comes out to
two and a half teaspoons and I'm not
kidding okay this is not a joke they
think that for your health that you
should only consume 2 and a half
teaspoons of saturated fat beef lamb
pork this is what they recommend no more
than 14 grams okay 14 grams that's 30
calories okay now one ounce of meat is
28.3 grams so what they're recommending
and I'm not kidding is 1 half of an
ounce of meat okay per day not per meal
but per day so in other words what
you're allowed to eat per day
is only one mouthful of meat just one
piece of meat that's it that's what they
think you need to stay healthy but of
course they do allow you to consume
added sugar at 31 grams that's six
teaspoons so explain to me how this is
going to contribute to your health and
also explain to me their other
recommendation of whole grains being 232
two gram okay that's 811 calories so
they want you to eat more whole grains
for your health okay and Less meat and
less saturated fat please please comment
down below and explain to me is there
something I'm missing is there something
about this that's going to increase my
health now since we talked about animal
saturated fats I think it's appropriate
now to talk about leafy greens and
salads okay so let me put that video up
right now check that one out
