you know I always love when people uh
tell Mew Dr BG I know what to do but I
just don't do it you know well what
happens they don't really know how to
burn fat they don't know that there's
four body types each one with their own
eating plan their own exercise plan in
their mind they have this idea if they
exercise the calories will be burnt off
right or if they take a a weight loss
pill like an a berry or a a raspberry
ketone or a coffee bean extracted
somehow that's going to boost your
metabolism and melt the fat off well I'm
going to tell you right now please don't
waste your money on that it's it's
gimmicks it's not going to
work now there's two things that I want
to talk about that are very very very
important they're actually the opposite
of what most people have an idea about
as far as losing weight number one
people really don't have a weight
problem okay they have a weight symptom
they really have a metabolism problem
all right now you might want to let that
sink in a little bit because that's just
the opposite of what people are taught
um the metabolism will
cause either weight loss or weight gain
depending on how fast it is when you're
18 it's fast you can lose weight like
crazy when you're 30 40 you can't
because things have change your
metabolism has changed so the problem
becomes less of a weight issue more of a
metabolism issue but everything is
designed to help you lose weight but the
problem is those things that they do to
stimulate your your weight loss tend to
ruin your metabolism so that's the
problem okay that's number one number
two people don't lose weight and get
healthy they have to first get healthy
to lose the weight so in other words the
inside of the body the Inner Health
directs the outside of how healthy
you're going to look on the outside it's
a very very important Point okay so we
have we really have a weight symptom
that's causing a metabolism burnout
because if you look inside ins a
person's body which I have a machine you
can look inside with someone that's
struggling with weight um problems they
usually have a burnt out metabolism okay
it's low so anything that tries to boost
it ends up ruining it so we want to get
that thing healthy so everything that we
do has to align with improving the
nutrition improving the energy levels
improving the Sleep issues okay
improving the Cravings those are
indications of being healthy sometimes
when you go to your doctor they'll say
oh uh you know what you're healthy you
just need to lose weight well like I
said before fatigue if you have fatigue
you're not healthy if you're overweight
you're not healthy if you crave things
you have sinus problems and you can't
sleep you're the inside of your body is
not balanced you're not healthy so the
most important thing that you need to
focus on right now if you're struggling
with your weight is the health of your
metabolism so the programing products on
this page are very different than most
weight loss programs because they don't
focus on the melting of the fat or the
boosting of the metabolism we already
know those things don't work this is
designed to focus on one thing and one
thing only that is the inside of your
body to get the inside healthy to get
your metabolism really healthy so you're
able to burn the fat like you did before
very important distinction okay because
energy no
Cravings good digestion all those are
precursors for losing weight so if this
doesn't make sense just click off right
now and don't waste your time but if
this does make sense and you want to try
something
different pick the program that fits
your budget below and I will see you on
the inside
