you know out of all the things that
people tell me probably the biggest
confusion people have is this thing
called calorie counting you know we have
all these people eating less but they're
not losing weight
and I know it's frustrating because I
see people at the gym and they're
they're doing everything they should
pretty much win an award for trying so
hard but it just doesn't work so there
are ideas that are true and they're
ideas that are false but you don't know
if it's false until you try it
like I had a doctor who came up to me
and told me that in their mind if you
give the patient lots of big complex
words they will they be impressed and
they'll want to see you but I told that
person that doctor that's absolutely not
true you have to break it down make it
simple because they're operating off
this false idea but you have to confuse
a patient it's crazy so this whole idea
about eating less and and losing weight
will will work but as you age 20s 30s
40s 50s hormones change and your
metabolism shuts down what you have to
use are the interactions of the foods
with hormones not the reduction of
calories okay so what I've done is I've
developed over the last eight years a
summary of all of the fat burning
triggers that store fat and that burn
fat and I have the pictures right here
this is eight years of work put on one
simple sheet so you can go through it
keep in your fridge and use it and apply
it so I hope you appreciate this because
you're gonna be able to download it with
the link below but all I want is two
things in return number one I want you
to apply as much of this as you can and
then send me your success story because
if you applied all this you would be
further way further than any other diet
that you could be on most diets never
ever get into the comprehensiveness of
all the hormonal reactions they might
talk about insulin or glycemic index but
not all of them number two I would
really appreciate if you went to do a
review on me either on Google Bing or
yeah
whoo and talk about this sheet that I've
given you if it helped you or any other
thing that aspects of my diet or as
coming in as a patient any positive
things go ahead and write a review I'd
really appreciate that so go ahead and
download this now and then I'll wait to
hear from you or see the review
