you know it's interesting um I I had a
practice I did what they told me to do
in in college where I had people eat eat
less food do the exercise eat better yet
I only had a certain percentage of
people getting results and I I asked
myself why do some people get results
and other people don't because I would I
would get good results on certain things
and I noticed that certain body types
didn't respond
to um the diet that I had them on so I
tried different diets I did high protein
I did U more vegetarian diets and that
was somewhat
successful but one thing that stood out
is that when people had belly fat um
they I would have them put on do sit-ups
and and I would have them do all sorts
of exercise and they would never lose
weight except the ones that had the
protruding belly
so I said you know there has to be a
reason for this so I started to kind of
um try to get more information about um
what's inside that could create that and
I knew something about cortisol but I
didn't really understand a lot at the
time I mean I studied in school but I
didn't really connect the dots and I
think a lot of doctors right now don't
connect the dots so I came across um a
um George Washington's medical School's
library and then they had a offshoot of
a bookstore okay I went to the bookstore
and I was I bought pretty much every
book on Endocrinology which is a study
of hormones and I thought maybe maybe
the answer is in the hormones right
so I found a book that was um on sale
and the name of the book was called
CBA Encyclopedia of
Endocrinology volume four by Frank nett
Okay so
I opened this book and it had all these
great graphic pictures of the body and
how the body worked and I started
thumbing through and when I hit cortisol
I was like oh my goodness it had a
picture of all these patients that I've
been trying to get rid of their belly
fat and the exact picture of them right
there I'm like wow it's high cortisol
causes belly fat interesting so it
actually causes the weight to be
deposited around the vital organs as a
survival mechanism and I noticed that
there's a whole bunch of other issues
associated with the adrenal body type
you have um blood sugar issues diabetes
craving for salty foods you had
excessive thinking um memory loss
inflammation that would include all the
pain that people have you had allergies
you have um weakness in the legs you
have insomnia you have high blood
pressure all these symptoms and I'm
going oh my goodness this is interesting
so then I I started noticing that people
that a belly fat they had a lot of these
characteristics so I started to develop
um kind of a category of different body
types at that point at that point I only
had three body types it was very funny
because I wrote a book about it and it
was like these cartoon pictures um which
is it was just a joke cuz I actually cut
and pasted them and I but I didn't
really know um a program to help these
people until a little bit later but I
started formulating the the body type
concept and then I found another picture
of the thyroid body type right in this
book and it had all the characteristics
it had weight gain all over it had
fatigue it had loss of the outer
eyebrows dry skin vertical ridges on the
nails we had um little indentations on
your teeth all these different
symptoms then I scanned over and I found
the ovary body type which is heaviness
in the weight um in the lower part of
the hips like the saddle bag area little
Pooch underneath the um the stomach with
all sorts of ovarian issues so here I
found three body types that start to uh
formulate my whole theory about the body
type Concepts at that point though I
didn't know how to deal with it I just
knew that there was different problems
that I kept running into with people
based on where they hold the weight so
then of course I bought all of the
volumes that Frank N had and one of them
was the liver type CU I read them all
cover to cover many times and I noticed
that you had the guy you ever see the
guy with the beach and the speeda with
the pot belly I've noticed that um there
was a body type like that but that
wasn't a fat situation it was a liver
issue that was leaking fluid into a sack
around the abdominal area so that would
make sense because when you put these
people on a lot of dark leafy greens all
that potassium will push the fluid out
and they'll lose weight real fast that
explained why they got results and the
reason why the the adrenal case didn't
work with the belly flat is because that
was a cortisol situation and the more
exercise that they did the worse it
would get so then I said okay the
problem is not really in the hormones
it's in the glands the thyroid the
adrenal the liver the ovary
so I said well what would it take to fix
the gland because no one's talking about
the gland how do you fix the gland well
each gland needs different nutrients it
responds differently to different
foods and for example the the adrenal is
the vitamin C reserve the iodine is
needed for the thyroid and certain
cruciferous vegetables are really good
for the ovary So based on what's
happening to the gland I match the foods
and the exercise that help heal the
glands and that's what developed the
body type Concepts it started out
pulling a string investigating going
deeper and deeper and deeper into the
real cause of why people develop the
body type shapes and how to undo it and
so I tested these theories I modified
them I tweaked them for the last 20
years and came up with the body type
program that I do now that I've had
people all over the world come to my
office and they fly in and we help them
so that's a little story of how I came
up with the body types
