hi guys in this video we want to talk
about a condition where you would get a
bloated belly after you workout okay
let's say you run you do some exercise
all this and you end up with this
stomach that's just like sticking out
it's swollen right what's up with that
it could also happen after a stress
event or let's say all day long you're
pushing your adrenals and also in the
day it's like you feel like you're
pregnant then you wake up and it's
smaller it's not that it's really kind
of a swollen belly coming from an
inflammatory State okay because cortisol
is involved so let's talk about cortisol
cortisol is the main adrenal hormone and
it's related to stress and overtime you
know people get a swell like a
permanently swollen belly or belly fat
that's high cortisol also could be high
insulin as well but here's the thing the
confusion is this corn assault is
normally an anti inflammatory hormone so
why wouldn't it get rid of inflammation
if you're raising it higher and being
activated by some stress event or
exercise and I think it the reasoning is
because it works the same as insulin
where you'd have insulin resistance you
also have cortisol resistance I'll put a
link down below more data on course or
resistance but let's say you have a
situation when you have high level of
stress over a long period of time or
maybe it's some shock to the system you
have this high levels of cortisol that
then causes the receptor to be blocked
so now the cortisol can't get in so now
inside the cell we have a low cortisol
the feedback loops send a signal back
telling the adrenal we don't have enough
make more so cortisol resistance is a
situation where course all doesn't work
but the body is pumping out a lot of it
at the same time so we have ineffective
inefficient dysfunctional cortisol and
because of that because the high levels
being produced you get a lot of swelling
after stress other condition conditions
you may have would be poor immune system
you might have a joint that gets swollen
sinuses that get congested at night like
it's called sleep apnea and a whole
bunch of other symptoms but
what you need to realize is that stress
this is acting as a stress it's too much
stress to the body so you're gonna have
to change your workouts to more of a
walking yoga low intensity type workout
or if you do interval training you want
to make sure they're real short little
tiny workouts with lots of rest not the
p90x or some type of intense type of
workout where you're like pushing
yourself for an hour you don't want to
do that
so you want to lower the intensity do
things to improve the adrenal to the
point where you can recover faster and
faster and then it won't swell anymore
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
