you know you can't escape stress stress
is everywhere right but really it's
about the tolerance of stress your
reaction to stress today I'm going to
take you in a completely different
direction I normally talk about
nutrition I talk about exercise I talk
about sleeping but this is a completely
different way of handling your stress
you probably have heard of the adrenal
glands right and cortisol which is a
stress hormone and the flight or fight
mechanism which is part of the autonomic
nervous system as it releases adrenaline
and those two hormones adapt the body to
stress dates so they're going to
increase your pulse rate they're going
to actually shift your metabolism to
more quick energy through sugar burning
here you are you know long after the
stress and your body is still in this
stress State what do you do well there's
some completely new information that you
probably never heard in fact I just
recently learned about this in school I
studied about this hormone called
oxytocin right and oxytocin has
everything to do with pregnancy a mother
bonding with the child lactation uterine
contraction during pregnancy it's also
involved in the sexual act but overall I
thought it related only to reproduction
in fact the Greek word for oxytocin
comes from two different words which
means Swift childbirth right so if you
have enough oxytocin you can have a baby
very A to B but I didn't know this and
maybe because they haven't really
discovered this until fairly recently
but oxytocin is involved in some other
things that can greatly counter your
stress in fact it is the most important
hormone in counteracting cortisol and
the flight or flight mechanism in other
words oxytocin modulates or regulates
the HPA axis and I'm talking about where
these stress hormones come from the
hypothalamus pituitary to the adrenal
and so oxytocin is a major hormone
involved in regulating your mood
specifically anxiety and stress you have
a lot of problems right and you're
worrying a lot it's also involved in
Social biology now what is that well
social biology has to do with uh social
helping others and the welfare of others
and they did this experiment on sheep
where they had this baby lamb and they
somehow removed the oxytocin from
another sheep that wasn't the mother
okay because the actual Mother wasn't
around and there was no maternal bonding
or helping from this mother sheep to the
lamb until they injected into the
cerebral spinal fluid some oxytocin and
so this female sheep who's not the
mother
then started taking care of this lamb so
I found that very very interesting now
oxytocin also prevents the atrophy of
the hippocampus now the hippocampus
learned some of my other videos is all
about involving the prevention of
Alzheimer's and Dementia so it's
involved in memory focused cognitive
function ability to learn
Etc and so we know that stress shrinks
and causes the hippocampus to atrophy
well oxytocin protects the hippocampus
which is why they sometimes use the
oxytocin nasal spray in Alzheimer's
patients and other patients that have
anxiety and things like that which is
quite interesting they basically found
this relationship to when someone sprays
oxytocin up into their sinuses Their
Fear goes down and their trust for
others goes up now if you think about
what fear is it's the opposite of trust
right like like you're not trusting
anyone right you're backing away
it's it's kind of a survival mechanism
if you happen to see a snake
you're not going to trust that the snake
is not going to bite you right you're
going through fear and run away from the
snake so that will keep you alive so
anytime fear goes up you know trust
typically goes down and they found an
oxytocin was involved in lowering fear
and raising trust which is interesting
so that's all really cool but now how do
we trigger more oxytocin okay so check
this out bonding with other people and
pets very very therapeutic to spike
oxytocin a lot of people will state that
when they hang out with their pets or
bond with other people their stress goes
down considerably another thing they
found to trigger oxytocin was
volunteering which is interesting and
that hormone goes up another thing that
will trigger it is donating right
donating to something interesting
another way to increase oxytocin would
be sharing with another another one is
storytelling actually increased not only
oxytocin but it also decreased cortisol
interesting and even hugging someone
will increase your oxytocin so when you
think about it what if all of these
things have in common helping the
welfare of another which is very
interesting because personally I find
that when I help people
it's actually a therapy for me in fact
your stress goes down you feel good
about it
um it's really difficult to have stress
while you're helping someone and so this
goes beyond just the diet and the
exercise and all that it's something
that you can do to increase oxytocin to
help your own stress but go ahead and
comment down below if you find that when
you help people you feel better and
you're less stressed now I'm not
suggesting that you go up to every
single neighbor and start hugging people
but I am suggesting that just the
awareness of all these other social
things that you can do is something that
can lower your stress and help another
now that being said there are a couple
nutritional factors that are also
involved too because they found that
vitamin C helps increase oxytocin this
is why for example your adrenals have a
very large supply of vitamin C magnesium
is also involved in helping make
oxytocin and so you need those two
nutrients okay and then also you need to
have cholesterol okay so cholesterol
also is involved so if you are on a low
cholesterol diet that could be a problem
estrogen also increases the receptor for
oxytocin
so this could explain when a woman goes
through menopause the anxiety goes up
because the estrogen does go down and
then estrogen is needed for oxytocin to
work but anyway I think this is just
fascinating information I've never known
these other functions of oxytocin which
relate to just really helping people
that gives us another solution to
staying stress-free now if you have not
seen my webinar on stress doing
acupressure that's a really good one to
watch because there are physical things
that you can do to extract stress and I
do this every night before I go to bed
and I put that video up right here check
it out
