so someone asked me the question can I
do pomegranate juice on the ketogenic
diet so let's talk about that well first
of all there's 12 grams of sugar and 1/2
of a cup of pomegranate seeds the juice
has a glycemic index of 60 so it's not
high but it's not low it's right in the
middle so you wouldn't want to consume
the juice but the seeds have a much
lower glycemic index than the actual
juice on top of that they have certain
nutrients that can increase the size and
number of the cells of the pancreas that
make insulin so it's great for a pre
diabetic an actual diabetic or in
general just to help the blood Sugar's
pomegranate juice is also known to
support the heart the brain and even
help reduce risk of cancer so overall
it's a really nutrient dense vital
nutrient dense product but just make
sure you consume the seeds you can
actually freeze the seeds and then have
them like a little candy at the end of a
meal or put them on your salads all
right thanks for watching hi guys listen
I want to thank you so much for your
wonderful comments and I want to ask you
if you wouldn't mind giving me your
review on Google I put a link down below
I'd really appreciate it and thank you
in advance
