let's discuss what to drink when you're
doing fasting okay in general does it
really matter are there things that will
bump you out of kosis let's first start
with water please comment down below of
what type of water that you drink is it
tap water plastic bottles do you use
glass bottles do you use a water filter
I'm really curious obviously you
probably already know that tap water is
pretty toxic so a lot of people are
shifting to more bottle water the
problem with bottle water is that you're
constantly consuming microplastics and
once it gets in your body it's really
hard to get out of your body and these
are endocrine disruptors so in other
words they mimic estrogen and they kind
of mess up your hormones but there's
certain types of plastics that are lower
than others like perier um pelino lacroy
things like that and then of course when
you get into glass bottles those are
better but they're very expensive and
then you also have the canned water
right that that is expensive but it also
has another toxin called BPA unless you
live on a farm like I do and get your
water from you know the a well or a
spring you're going to be better off
getting a water filter when I lived in
the city it was a really good water
filter I got from a company called
Crystal Quest I'll put a link down below
I'm not affiliated with this company I'm
not getting an affiliate check or
anything like that but it's a good
company uh for different water filters
but they have really good pictures that
I want to talk about like these uh
containers of water you can keep in your
fridge so you just get it from the tap
it filters it through four stages it
pulls out the heavy metals the chemicals
the medications bacteria all this other
stuff and you have some really good
clean water and I'm not sure if they
have shower filters that pull out
fluoride and if you get rid of this
fluoride you're going to find like your
skin uh does a lot better and if you do
do plastic water or these canned water
type things I probably just wouldn't do
a lot of them you know you know just
don't make it your line share of of
liquids when I drink water I just don't
feel that my thirst gets quench there's
something about it but when I drink
carbonat water it's a whole different
story I actually feel more hydrated I
can drink that it goes down fine and I
do want to mention a theory I have on
why that is I think better for me is
because first of all there's carbon
dioxide when you introduce carbon
dioxide to your body you you create some
real interesting effects especially with
oxygen you actually increase more
oxygen into your tissues with the carbon
dioxide you also um acidify the water a
little bit more and that could
potentially be uh better on your
digestion but yes we do need oxygen but
we also need CO2 equally as important in
fact um there's something called the
bore effect the CO2 helps take that
oxygen that gets absorbed in your blood
and helps push it deeper into your cells
let me just give you an example of what
happens when you get too much oxygen
when you're
hyperventilating and you can feel more
anxiety and more dizzy things like that
so what's the remedy to breathe in a
paper bag what are you doing when you're
breathing in a paper bag you're getting
more
CO2 which then helps the oxygen go into
the tissues and it can pull you out of a
state of anxiety very very quickly so
again we need this balance CO2 and
oxygen this is why anytime you're
stressed you should slow down your
breathing breathe through your nose
slowly in and out and in your sinuses
you actually condition the air to allow
better oxygen that penetrates deeper
into the cells with the CO2 and so the
CO2 in the water does help increase
something called the parasympathetic
nervous system which actually is more
calming and it's more for relaxation and
then we have
what can you put in your water let's
first start with um apple cider vinegar
okay one tablespoon in a glass of water
what does that do it can give you energy
directly it can help with insulin
resistance it can actually help make
insulin more sensitive it can help the
mitochondria work better it's also been
shown in animal studies to help counter
the negative uh effect of aging on your
mitochondria
that's pretty cool and it can even help
uh you if you have a fatty liver if you
add some lemon to that you get some
additional benefits of vitamin C if it's
from raw lemons I also add my
electrolyte powder to the water
sometimes not with every single glass of
water but maybe one time in the morning
uh some sea salt to the water okay this
is something that I think is just really
underrated but very important that a lot
of people forget about when they do the
keto enic diet if you don't have enough
salt okay you're going to feel weak you
you're going to find that your sleep
isn't going to be as great in fact just
do an experiment add a little bit of
salt to some water right after dinner
and drink that down and see if that
doesn't improve your sleep salt or
sodium is very important for reducing
this stressed State okay it's called the
sympathetic nervous system sodium helps
reduce that if you're low on which a lot
of people doing the ketogenic diet are
especially if you're doing like one meal
a day they might end up finding that
they feel a little bit weak uh their
muscles tighten up they get more cramps
all because they needed more sea salt I
do have an electrolyte powder
specifically for sports if you're
sweating that has more sodium so that
can be something that you can use but
the whole reason why I designed my
regular um electrolyte powder which has
a lower amount of salt is mainly for uh
pottassium and magnesium because so many
people just don't get enough of that and
when someone starts getting enough of
that boy that can really uh change a lot
of things with their energy their uh
muscle and their nervous system okay so
that's water what about all these drinks
that have um Stevia the natural
sweetener you have to be careful because
a lot of times they'll add maltodextrin
to this natural Sweeten Stevia so you
have to make sure they don't put that in
there but a lot of people have like
different sodas using Stevia different
drinks with stevia totally fine and you
can also uh do the um sugar alcohols But
realize that a lot of times they'll add
different things in the ingredients so
you have to read the label and find
something maybe with a rral monk fruit
or Stevia all right what about coffee um
the thing about coffee it's totally fine
personally I just do one in the morning
uh some people do more um just realize
that could affect your sleep because the
caffeine I would recommend doing organic
coffee because out of all the things out
there that are so heavily um sprayed
with insecticides and herbicides and
fungicides coffee is at the top of the
list and even better than even half and
half like just 100% cream sometimes
people use bulletproof uh which is
they're adding uh butter and MCT oil uh
that's good for certain people but if
you're trying to lose weight okay and
you add that that could slow you down a
little bit because your body is going to
burn those fat calories and not your own
fat now the next topic is tea you have
black tea green tea just realize that if
you do a lot of tea and coffee it can
deplete you of vitamin B1 so if that
starts happening replace it with B1
because if you are low in B1 you're
going to feel irritable kind of stressed
and you might think it's coming from
stress but in reality it's just coming
from a B1 deficiency what about coconut
water well some people can get away with
that most people cannot because there's
sugar in coconut water um there's
electrolytes in there I would recommend
not doing the coconut water all right
what about alcohol is that a good source
of hydration no um they recently have
found out that there is no benefits uh
to alcohol like they said before like oh
yeah just enjoy a glass of wine each
night for your health to add more health
benefits they finally acknowledged that
wasn't true not to mention knocking you
out of ketosis and tagy because what it
does to the liver then we have something
called kombucha a very um carbonated
highly pressured so when you open it it
could explode if you shake it but it's a
kind of a really acidic drink that um is
really good if someone's coming off
alcohol it gives kind of a calming
effect it has a tiny little bit of
alcohol but very carbonated but there's
still some sugar in there because that's
how they make it the yeast actually eats
eat up the um the sugar and it leaves
you with all these different assets
right and u a little bit of that is fine
but I would not do a lot of it
especially because it has a lot of sugar
and it can actually slow down your
benefits of what you're trying to
achieve what about Blended uh shakes
like kale and blueberry those are are
fine but they will kind of inhibit your
fasting to a certain degree because
there's calories now um the blueberries
are a bit high in sugar so I would just
look at that as a meal uh something that
would be more around your meal not
during the fasting time now what about
sports strengths oh my gosh you really
have to read the labels because like the
Gatorade and um Power raid have a
tremendous amount of sugar I'm talking
like 34 grams of sugar I mean if you
compare that with aoda that has 39 grams
of sugar and the type of sugar that
they're giving you is probably beet
sugar which is GMO and there's another
type of uh drink called tonic drink
which I know for some reason I love
tonic drink but the problem is most of
them have sugar you have to get the one
that has zero sugar but anyway I wanted
to kind of give you a summary of what
you should drink when you're fasting and
now the question is what should you eat
when you come off fasting for that
information watch this video right
here
