now out of all the things that can
improve your health
this one thing is pretty much at the top
of the list but I found out recently
I've never done a video on this one
specific topic and that has to do with
diversity of your microbes in your gut
and how to increase your own diversity
of the microbiome so first of all what
is this word diversity well it's the
number of different species that you
have in your gut okay and you also have
a factor of richness which is the total
amount of microbes so ideally you want a
rich microbiome with a lot of different
species you know and this kind of goes
against this idea of like health is
being clean right free of germs well
apparently it's just the opposite of
that you want a lot of germs in your
body but inside and you want them
friendly if you don't have this
diversity believe it or not you actually
get more unfriendly pathogens I'm
talking about like salmonella H pylori
let's see diff E coli you know all these
microbes do live in your body in a
healthy environment and they don't
bother you until the relationship
changes because of the environmental
changes but if you're missing this
diversity all sorts of issues can happen
diarrhea inflammation in your gut you
get more toxins obesity your metabolism
slows down your mood is lowered and this
all relates to something called
dysbiosis in fact dysbiosis is pretty
much involved or associated with every
single illness out there even
Alzheimer's Parkinson's ADHD
schizophrenia bipolar having anxiety
depression so I think this topic is
really really important even cancer yes
there's usually always dis spouses when
you have cancer so it's so important to
have a wide variety of these species to
make vitamins for immune protection to
keep your inflammation down to feed your
colon cells to help you produce amino
acids and neurotransmitters and other
proteins to keep your energy High
all sorts of health related things now
you have to also realize that in your
gut 99 of all the microorganisms are
bacteria
you do have one percent left and that
kind of makes up
friendly fungus friendly yeast friendly
mold and other friendly microorganisms
so it's not all bacteria
and then if we look at the bacteria okay
there's two categories of bacteria
and they're both what's called anaerobes
which they survive without oxygen one is
called obligate anaerobs okay and these
are the type of microbes that they die
if you expose them to oxygen so they can
only live without oxygen and then you
have another category of anaerobic
bacteria called facultative this type of
bacteria can live even though it's
called an anaerobic bacteria it can live
without oxygen and it also can live with
oxygen so it can do both and out of the
majority of research that's out there
it's the facultative anaerobic microbes
that are studied not these other
microbes that hate oxygen right they die
with oxygen and those specific bacteria
make up 99 of all the bacteria okay only
one percent is the um the other ones
which actually can live with oxygen or
without and it's interesting because
most the research is on that one percent
only so in other words there's a lot we
don't know okay because it's hard to
culture those microbes that are only
dependent on an environment without
oxygen so there's a tremendous amount of
things we just don't know but what we do
know for sure is the more diversity the
more Health you're going to have but
even if we're talking about like
nutrient dense foods okay nutrient dense
foods are dependent on the diversity of
microbes in this soil so if you want
nutrient-dense Foods you have to make
sure that the soil has a great wide
range of microbes
if we want Health we need to make sure
that we have a wide range of microbes in
our gut it's a diversity of microbes in
the gut that gives the plant immune
protection that gives the plant
vitamins and minerals and phytonutrients
and disease resistance and then that
plant becomes stronger
and it too is filled with micros because
plants also have their own microbiome
and so that relates to the animals that
eat the plants right the health of that
animal is dependent on the health of the
plant now this is going to relate to the
next topic of how do we increase the
diversity of of microbes in our gut the
first way is to eat food that has been
grown on soil that has diversity okay so
buying your salad and vegetables at the
farmer's market is going to be better
than buying vegetables at the grocery
store that you have no idea where it
came from but you pretty much know if
you eat the food because it's like
tasteless if you have more flavor you
can have more nutrients and you can be
rest assured that they were grown on a
really good diverse microbiome in the
soil another way is to start eating more
of a diversified types of plants okay so
in your salad and I'm totally guilty of
this I usually have had the same type of
lettuce over and over for a very long
time and so what I done recently after
I'm studying all this is I started to
diversify the types of plants that I eat
in my salad so I'm I'm putting things in
my salad that I've never ate before and
then when I go in the grocery store I
just basically try several different new
plants and so I put them in my salad and
I eat them and I definitely will tell
you I notice a big difference
another thing that can increase
diversity is actually exercise the
exercise stress which is a positive
stress creates more diversity in your
gut also better sleep will do it and
intermittent fasting yeah it adds a
positive stress that increases
diversity of microbes in your gut versus
snacking through the day which basically
creates a lot of lazy microbes it's very
similar to the animals on my farm if I
feed them like snacks all day they get
overweight they get sluggish they don't
really do much so for example my pigs I
have them on an intermittent fasting
schedule they get one meal a day my
chickens around an 18 to 6 window so I
feed them twice a day so they can fast
for 18 hours and the same thing with my
dogs but I don't give my dogs a lot of
snacks in between little treats because
that breaks the fast the next thing that
can increase diversity is consuming more
phenols okay phenols what are phenols
well it's those phytonutrients like the
flavonoids in different plants and
lemons and limes and berries things like
that and also the tannins in different
herbs like even different teas Coumadin
in turmeric is a a phenol but phenols
are a wide category of a lot of
different types of phenols and if you're
consuming a wide range of vegetables and
maybe berries and other plants you're
going to get a lot of phenols and that's
going to stimulate a wide range of
different species in your gut a really
good way to increase diversity is to
consume Sprouts or micro greens that are
grown on soil because Sprouts normally
aren't grown on soil but when you start
getting into microgreens not grown on
like coconut fiber I'm talking about
actual soil it's a bit hard to find but
you can grow your own but those
microgreens
are loaded with not just friendly
microbes in the plant itself but
phytonutrients including a lot of
polyphenols and fiber that your microbes
will really love so when you're eating
microgreens you're really supporting
your gut health in a big way
and the cool thing is you don't need a
lot of them you just need a little bit
because they're so concentrated with
these phytonutrients the next thing is
Probiotic foods kefir sauerkraut
essential they have such a wide range of
different microbes you talk about
diversity of microbes in sauerkraut and
kimchi and even kefir I mean there's
just a lot of different microbes so when
you eat those foods that are Diversified
you get the benefit of that I mean let's
just take one microbe the lactobacillus
microbe certain lactobacillus microbes
help you make dopamine which can help
support and even potentially prevent
ADHD depression anxiety and many other
similar disorders and then also raw food
more raw food is better so if you're
going to eat vegetables and you eat them
all just completely cooked to death well
that's not going to support the
microbiome as much as eating them raw I
think a balance of steamed and cooked
and raw is a good thing now it's very
important also to talk about the flip
side what lowers this microbiome
diversity okay number one broad spectrum
antibiotics
it's a killer anytime you take an
antibiotic and try to take transparently
always take a probiotic at the same time
or start consuming Probiotic foods at
the same time very important
there are other things that are
antibiotics that you probably are not
aware of like glyphosate which is in the
GMO Foods because they spray this
glyphosate on the soil and that actually
is classified as an antibiotic
unfortunately that chemical is so many
foods it's I mean it's just it's in
almost everything which means we need to
kind of actively work on building up our
gut now animals that are fed on a
monoculture like only one or two or
three foods whether it's grains or even
grasses have less microbes to work with
and they themselves have a a lower
amount of diversity because the animal
gets its diversity from the wide range
of plants and this is why when I entered
in my beef in the study that I did I
don't know if you saw the video on it
but I'll put a link down below I have a
very diverse pasture of not just grasses
but weeds I mean it's like like probably
over 40 or 50 different plants that
these
animals have a chance to eat and it's
their Smorgasbord of all sorts of things
they can eat and when I entered in my
beef and we compared that to a lot of
the other farms around the country I
mean talk about health I mean even the
phytonutrients
in the beef was like three times higher
than most other Farms that's right there
are plant-based chemicals in animals
that's right so now you can get your
antioxidants by eating beef right you
just have to make sure that it's really
really healthy so another thing that
will lower the diversity is stress
artificial sweeteners inflammation will
do it a fatty liver in fact any liver
problem because the liver makes bile and
without the quantities of bile then we
get an imbalance in our microbes we get
this dysbiosis so bile is actually made
by your microbes but also bile controls
the ratios of certain microbes so we
need a healthy liver to have this
diversity too many sterilized Foods
pasteurized food radiated food
overly processed food really bad for
your gut like I said before also less a
variety of foods right so the next time
you go to the grocery stores just start
picking out different vegetable
varieties and start to you know build
out your salad and try new things now
another couple points if you're pregnant
or going to have a child is
breastfeeding because if you're not
breastfeeding
you're not going to be able to inoculate
with the microbes as well as the
colostrum into that infant and that
could be a problem later in life with
their microbiome the diversity of
microbiome and of course that also goes
with the C-section having a natural
birth enhances the diversity of your
microbes so I wanted to shine a very
bright light and focus in on this
diversity because I think it's a really
important thing and if you haven't seen
my more comprehensive video on digestion
okay that's a real interesting one I put
that up right here check it out
