hi guys recently had a question on what
to do for
vaginosis okay so I'm gonna show you the
four best home remedies for that this
condition is an overgrowth of microbes
it's an imbalance in microbes and what
happens is you want to address it from
the inside out
so you want to consume these things
right here number one kefir which is a
fermented drink
make sure it's grass-fed and plane don't
get the flavored one or the vanilla or
the sweetened we want the sugars as low
as possible and I definitely don't
recommend consuming any milk that's
pasteurized that'll make things worse
also fermented vegetables are really
really good sauerkraut pickles kimchi
awesome okay apple cider vinegar believe
it or not is also good to take in some
water with your meal the probiotic that
you want would be called lactobacillus
brevis that's the one that makes is a
byproduct hydrogen peroxide which
actually kills this kills off the
unfriendly microbes so do that oregano
oil and grapefruit seed oil is also good
to take for really stubborn strains if
you keep getting this over and over
again take it orally and what will
happen you'll start to build up the
friendly microbes and kill off the bad
microbes alright thanks for watching hey
if you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quince
