[Music]
hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the adrenal day formula now
what does this do um this actually is a
um adrenal support formula that I
develop based on what I'm seeing in my
office over and over and over like what
nutrition that they need during the day
to reduce stress and increase energy and
enhance sleeping but you don't take this
to sleep you take this for stress um
over half of the product is some very
special B vitamins but in a very
interesting form they're not synthetic
like most B vitamins they are food-based
natural B vitamins which are really
difficult to get and they've been
extracted from nutritional yeast but
this is the type of yeast that won't
give you a yeast infection like some of
the other ones out there if you go try
to buy nutritional yeast at the store
you're going to notice it's been
enriched it's like what does that mean
enriched that means it's been sprayed
with synthetics yeah so this is the
natural version and the version that
will not give you a yeast infection okay
so it's really cool so you have the B
vitamins now what's going to happen when
you take this typically if you have a
lot of nervous tension inside this is
what you need because stress depletes
those B vitamins and this puts them back
in and um you don't have a lot of like
the B vitamins only last for like four
or five hours and then they're just
burnt out especially if you're going
through a lot of mental stress so if you
have a lot of nervous tension this is
you take one of these um and within
about 10 minutes you'll just feel calm
you'll feel good so this is an awesome
thing um if you have people around you
that are really irritable just stick
this in their coffee and they'll start
being really nice to you I have a dry
sense of humor so just go ahead and give
it to them um so there's other
ingredients as well there's um there's
all these key u minerals that you need
for the adrenals there's different forms
of minerals that support the adrenal
function there's also certain herbs but
they're not stimulation herbs
stimulatory they're they're more um they
adapt your body to the stress States
so um that's what those are in there
they're and there's a few trace minerals
but the main thing and the combination
of things are ultimately going to
support the adrenal gland and stress
responses so here's the thing
I want you to take at least three per
day and you can spread them out but some
people have so much stress and they have
so many problems with that they might
have anxiety or something like that I
might recommend six to even nine per day
because they might need that initially
as they're kind of winding down or
getting balanced um so this is a good
product for that and then as far as side
effects there really is no side effects
from this product at all um unless there
you have a severe allergy to something
which is very unlikely um but I think
you're going to like this one right here
and you're going to feel good from it
and you'll have actually more energy and
it's just one of our our solutions to a
stressed out adrenal okay so I hope this
video helped and I will see you in the
next one
