my name is Tandra Denise Turner and Dr
Berg uh was at my job and was talking
about his program talking about the
different um body types and I was I'm
interested in health subjects
and um once I heard about that I got
interested in it and wanted to find out
what type of body type I had uh the past
few years I gained weight easily and I
my Avid exerciser I was doing exercise
like maybe like uh 5 days a week and was
wondering why
I couldn't keep the keep the weight off
so that was that was my concern no
actual health health problems but the
weight gain I didn't know uh why I kept
gaining weight and didn't know how to
take it off
efficiently you know most people think
the the best way to do like exercise and
eat less so I was always at you know
that adage and but I was familiar with
um homeopathic um medicine so I wasn't
um real skeptical about it cuz I I knew
it I know well excuse me I know it
works uh Dr Berg um he was very uh
accomodating he listened um to um some
of my symptoms uh told him about some of
the experience I had and um he broke it
down um basically and explained it uh Dr
bur explained um what type of body type
I had he told me I was adrenal type and
the reason why I wasn't losing weight
cuz my my adrenals were burned out from
the overe exertion in some of the foods
I was eating and I know I gain weight in
mostly in the in the belly area and
that's um that's how it came about from
a burnout adrenals and he explained that
very well Dr bur pinpointed you know
very well uh we did a couple of tests
few different tests and for each test he
explained what each of the tests um
meant and you think like oh well that's
why one one example um from the book and
he was mentioned to me also lot of times
adrenal people with adrenal um issues
they might have a a slight twitch under
their eye from and I I had that every so
I I didn't know what what it came from I
thought it was weird but I didn't know
what it was and made the connection U
when he told me the information that I
read read the
book Dr bur's philosophy is is is true
um in order to
lose weight you have to be get healthy
and a lot of times people can't lose the
weight because they're not healthy so
the main the main um process is to get
get healthy
