all right today we're going to talk
about carbohydrates and sugars and all
the confusions that come along with a
carbohydrate people talk about complex
carbohydrates simple carbohydrates
polysaccharides it's very very confusing
what is a carbohydrate and how does that
different than a sugar so let's just
clear that up carbohydrates are made up
of sugars starches and fiber the
biochemical name for a carbohydrate is a
saccharide so basically carbohydrates
are a compound of these these are
saccharides and carbohydrates are
classified by the number of saccharides
the Greek word for saccharides is sugar
okay now we have monosaccharides okay
mono means single or one so
monosaccharide would be one of these
that would be glucose or fructose or
galactose this would be considered a
simple sugar
you also have dextrose in others but I'm
going to keep it fairly basic next one
and there's four okay is dye saccharides
okay dye means two two of these right
here okay it's called two
monosaccharides so an example of a
disaccharide would be like table sugar
or sucrose that's the same thing sucrose
is composed of two of these glucose and
fructose another example would be
lactose milk sugar it's composed of
glucose and galactose okay so that's
what a disaccharide is pretty simple the
disaccharide and these other two I'm
going to talk about make up the complex
carbohydrates okay so this is a simple
these are the complex okay now we're
gonna get to a legal saccharides so
illegal saccharides are three to nine of
these guys right here all right last one
polysaccharides poly means many
and this would be about 10 or more of
these guys okay
and that would be like a starch here are
some examples potato rice wheat and corn
okay
those are starches these are composed of
many of these guys right here connected
together and then you have the fiber is
an example of a polysaccharide that
would be called sails
the thing about fiber that you should
know is that fiber helps decrease the
absorption of sugar so the more fiber
you have like in celery the less
absorption of sugar you're gonna have
also fiber decreases the sugar response
so it decreases the sugar spike well
guess what that's it that's the
complexity of a carbohydrate in
relationship to a simple sugar complex
sugars saccharides starches and fiber
the next thing that would be good for
you to know would be more on the
glycemic index I put that video right
here
