all right so let's talk about how to
stop diarrhea now one of the big
problems when you have diarrhea is you
can become very very deficient in
electrolytes really fast and certain
nutrients that can create huge problems
for your heart and you might feel dizzy
because one of the purposes in your
colon and even the small intestine is to
absorb these electrolytes and you need
the electrolytes for your heart so if
we're depleting them you can create a
electrical life problem and you're going
to notice it with the rhythm of your
heart whether it's a palpitation or an
arrhythmia so we don't want to have
diarrhea for a very long time because
that can be dangerous so when you have
diarrhea you're eliminating electrolytes
fluid can become dehydrated salts okay
also probiotics like microbes you're
getting rid of those and you're also
losing acids okay so there's an acid
called lactic acid which you need in
your colon to help you absorb nutrients
as well as defend yourself against
certain pathogenic microbes so it has
other functions as well so basically all
these things are wiped out and so what
we want to do if you have diarrhea is we
want to make sure we put them back in
and it wouldn't hurt also to add trace
minerals back in there too
because one of the big problems around
the world with major zinc deficiencies
in children is diarrhea having diarrhea
through food poisoning or whatever can
cause a loss of zinc but also a zinc
deficiency can also cause diarrhea back
and forth so diarrhea can come from a
virus or a bacteria or food poisoning or
antibiotics or consuming sugar alcohols
like xylitol we throat are mannitol
maltitol
it can also come from excessive bile now
bile lubricates the colon and if you
have too much of it it can create
diarrhea what happens when you remove
the gall bladder for example sometimes
one of the side effects is now you have
this huge runoff or excessive amounts of
drainage of bile from the liver and that
alone can create
riah and the other problem is when you
have diarrhea you're not able to recycle
this bile effectively so the bile then
you start losing bile and you become
bile deficient so it can create a
problem with your ability to digest fats
absorb fat soluble vitamins things like
that gut dysfunction whether you have
Crohn's diverticulitis irritable bowel
syndrome or celiac if there's damage in
the lining that can create diarrhea or
constipation and a lot of problems with
absorption of nutrients so if you have
that I suggest you watch my video on
that I put a link down below and also
certain drugs have side effects of
giving you diarrhea metformin certain
drugs that target depression or anxiety
can cause diarrhea as well so now in the
large colon okay we have a lot of
microbes probably about 400 different
species okay and they're all working
together and they eat your fiber that
you feed it okay through vegetables
other fibers and what they do is they
ferment it and they turn it into these
certain assets that are beneficial for
you called small chain fatty acids and
those assets can feed the colon cells
they can also give your body energy and
they can also help things like insulin
resistance and help your immunity now
when the microbes ferment the fiber
there's a certain bulk that's formed and
that's part of the stool so we have the
microbes and the fiber both of these are
essential in preventing diarrhea so one
thing you really want to do is you want
to put back in the probiotic the
microbes okay get a really good
probiotic I'll put a link down below of
one I recommend that you can take that
survives the stomach that can go down
there and start building up this natural
what is called flora from the bacteria
kefir is something you can also consume
make sure it's plain goat's kefir is
much better because it's lower in carbs
but this is a really good thing to to
take which actually has
probiotics it's much better than yogurt
has a lot more friendly bacteria than
yogurt one thing that I also recommend
is kombucha tea kombucha tea has some
lactic acid in there and it can replace
what's lost and make you feel a lot
better really quick now as far as what
fiber to do once you had diarrhea here's
some recommendations pickles why because
pickles had already had help in their
fermentation process and those are much
easier to break down because you're also
getting some friendly bacteria and
you're getting certain acids with that
and fiber all at once so if you consume
pickled or fermented vegetables you're
going to be one step ahead of the game
because it not only has the fiber in an
digestible form the it has acids with
that like pickle juice has certain acids
that are really friendly to the year :
and you also have friendly microbes as
well
sauerkraut really really beneficial
because it has the prebiotic the fiber
and the probiotic as once kimchi awesome
berries especially blackberries seem to
work really really good
giving your your microbes a chance to
take that fiber and slow this process
down I also in another video that I will
put down you can combine blackberries
with kefir blend it up and drink that it
just seems to work really nice carob is
a really good remedy get some carob
powder and take that that seems to work
very well alright so there you have it
that's what you need to do for diarrhea
and I have another video a complete
video on the digestive system to really
understand the whole mechanism I think
you should watch it if you have
digestive issues I put it right on the
screen right here
