hey guys in this video I want to talk
about the anatomy of a hot flash okay
what actually is it um what the common
remedy uh in in medicine is U estrogen
like hormone replacement therapy or just
estrogen I'm going to tell you why that
works but it comes with a package and
I'm not recommending it okay but again
anything that I recommend just check
with your doctor that's my disclaimer
okay you have this uh this endocrine
pathway in the body it starts from the
hypothalamus it's a little tiny little
gland up in the brain with a bunch of
little cells that have pre-programmed
messages that run different functions
and then this is like the master gland
it's like the owner of the football team
then you have the pituitary okay that's
like the coach of the football team so
we have the owner that says sends the
message down and the pituitary then
sends down messages to the different
glands so it kind of splits off so you
like maybe have the CEO and the office
manager okay so they both in
coordination so the messages up here in
this little tiny little tiny Speck of a
um a nerve uh bundle up here has
messages that are in a Timing System
okay every month okay release the egg
release the egg from the ovaries down
here and we have this whole
communication that the messages are sent
down it gets received and then once it
gets received it sends back the message
telling it I got your message you can
turn it off okay so that way we have
this onoff feedback loop okay and that's
why even if you talk to someone um and
they're ignoring you you might continue
to talk or increase your volume because
the acknowledgement is the turnoff
switch it's like okay I heard you thank
you you can stop talking now okay so we
have this whole thing going and then at
age 52 maybe a little before a little
after you run out of eggs okay you have
400 eggs you're done you're retirement
the OV are retirement and so they turn
off okay so what happens so now the
message should normally just shut this
off and everything should be fine
because there's a backup organ the
adrenal glands which are on top of the
kidney produce the same hormones as the
ovaries they're the backup to the
ovaries and typically what happens
during menopause you don't need the full
set of ovarian hormones you need some
but you don't need a large amount
because you're not going to have babies
anymore uh well maybe you might but
maybe you might not but the point is
that if these adrenal glands do not back
up the ovaries with the hormones if they
don't supply enough let's say they're
weak adrenal fatigue and you go in the
menopause you get the failure to the
backup and you kind of short s short
circuits this whole pathway so now we
don't get this feedback loop so now the
hypothalamus is sending down excessive
signals down to the down to the adrenals
try to to kick them in gear and that
overstimulates the inside of the adrenal
which creates uh a little spike in
Adrenaline so your heart rate starts
going up you're you start sweating so uh
you have all these these flashes of heat
that go down so that's really what
causes the hot flash is a a failure for
the adrenals to back up the ovaries okay
and uh so what can you do well you want
to support the adrenals I put a link
with some ideas down below if you want
to check it out and read up on it but in
this video I just wanted to show the
anatomy of what a hot flash really is
it's really simply an adrenal weakness
that's it all right thanks for watching
