I want to share some very important
information about preserving your muscle
for longevity did you realize that when
certain people lose weight it actually
shortens their lifespan now how can that
be I mean we all know that losing weight
helps you live longer right as you get
older it's very important that you
maintain a good amount of lean muscle
mass as a side note I do want to mention
something that's very popular right now
people going on o zic that manipulate
certain hormones to help you establish
better blood sugar and decrease hunger
and slow down digestion what you should
also know is it comes with a package in
certain trials they showed that these
drugs can actually significantly cause
muscle loss the weight that the person's
losing is not all fat and in one study
they compared it to a decade or more of
Aging it would be terrible for someone
to go on that drug lose all this weight
and find out that it actually also lost
a lot of muscle and then put them at
risk for not living as long as I read
the study it became very apparent what
you're losing really really is important
and when we're talking about preserving
lean muscle mass out of all the things
that you can do for longevity that is at
the top of the list muscle loss actually
starts for most people in their 30s
that's right we have this peak muscle
mass let's say you know 18 19 20 years
old and then in your 30s it starts to
kind of slightly go downward I want to
mention sarcopenia for a second because
this is age related muscle loss when and
one of the ways they Define it is that
when you lose 20% or more of your muscle
that would be considered sarcopenia
muscle helps regulate blood sugar muscle
supports your metabolism and how you
metabolize energy when people start
developing the sarcopenia their risk for
diabetes goes up the risk for immune
problems goes up their overall mortality
the risk of dying goes up as well on
average an 80-year-old will lose about
50% of their muscle however I am going
to explain how you can avoid that of
course one of the most important things
you can do for your muscle is called
exercise right did you realize that
inactivity can decrease your muscle mass
how many people are sitting in their
couch just like watching a lot of TV
after they retire and they pretty much
don't exercise anymore the worst thing
you can do for your muscles is not move
and the other point about that is of
course you want to have the raw material
to build proteins so that would be
grass-fed red meat is at the top of the
list but what do they tell you to avoid
as you get older right avoid red meat
because it's going to cause cancer
that's a total lie I think it's very
very important to spread out your
protein throughout the day you should
probably do maybe two meals a day or
even three meals a day depending on how
much muscle loss that you have and then
you should actually take that protein
and even it out through the entire day
to keep aable protein there for your
muscles to take in through the day and
this is one of the the problems I have
with a person being a vegan especially
as they get older getting the quality
amount of protein into their muscles
another thing that's really fascinating
about this topic is that insomnia is
very deadly to your muscles poor sleep
will drain muscle mass more than a poor
diet when you're sleeping this is where
all the recovery occurs with your
muscles all of the benefit of exercise
occurs at night not during the day or
not during a stress event and the type
of exercise that you do is very very
important too you want to do something
that creates resistance on your muscles
we need to be able to create enough
stimulus to cause the muscles to react
and adapt to that stress and resistance
training is the most important secret to
reversing age related muscle loss this
should be a priority for you as you get
older it's very very important regular
resistance training regular strength
training your fat is a reserve for
energy your muscle also has a reserve
and this is why your body can fast for a
period of time it could not eat for days
or weeks where is it getting the protein
from your muscle this Reserve in your
muscle is also there to be able to heal
from an injury to allow your immune
system to tap into these amino acids
because your immune system is all
protein the white blood cells the repair
enzymes the enzymes to help help grow
your body are all protein you also use
amino acids to make glucose for certain
tissues that are dependent on glucose
called glucon neogenesis the formation
of new sugar from
noncarbohydrate sources this muscle
Reserve matters it's super important our
body requires more protein during
infection during immune crisis and after
exercise having enough muscle also can
infl inuence your cognitive State all
these neurotransmitters are made out of
guess what protein the muscles are
important in your lymphatic system
because it's dependent on your muscles
and how well that you use your muscles
when you exercise and you do some type
of intense exercise you also release
anti-aging molecules they're called
myokines they help with pain they help
with bone exercise is so important
there's another type of muscle loss
called ketsia This is muscle loss at any
age is dependent on chronic illness
whether it's cancer or some type of
disease like in cancer the body is
stealing all that protein for its fuel
so in summary these are the things that
you should focus on as you age increase
your lean body mass and at the top of
the list consistent exercise
high-intensity interval training doing
strength training walking stretching
number two your diet and I'm talking
about having adequate amount of high
quality amino acids from red meat now it
is not true that red meat causes cancer
okay grass-fed red meat I'm talking
about beef lamb super important if you
have any problems digesting red meat
which a lot of people do as they age you
should acidify the stomach instead of
avoiding red meat how do you do that you
start taking ban hydrochloride like
maybe four or five of them before you
eat the red meat build up the stomach
acid it's going to help you absorb not
just the protein but also minerals as
well remember we need this high quality
protein for our immune system for
enzymes for antioxidants for the ability
to detox the ability to repair the
ability to maintain your muscle also
make a point of this collagen 30% of
your muscles are collagen take a
collagen supplement trace minerals and
other nutrients are very important in
the formation of muscle I'm going to
list the most important ones first okay
number one magnesium glycinate super
super important magnesium and the
exercise will help you sleep which will
also help your muscles number two
vitamin D number three zinc very
important and then we get other trace
minerals like selenium and copper the B
vitamins are very important coenzyme Q10
very important iron is important but I
don't recommend taking that as a
supplement get that from your red meat
but there's one more little cool thing
I'm going to bring up that I'm glad that
you stayed this far because this is like
really important I recently went from
185 to 191 pounds and it was all muscle
and I didn't change anything but one
thing there's a certain type of cultured
microbe that you can make and the
microbe you would use is called L ruteri
I did a whole video on this but this
microb has some fascinating research
with increasing
oxytocin which is going to decrease
stress it's going to help your sleep but
also there's some amazing data that it
can increase muscle stem cell and I
think it's doing it for myself and I'm
going to keep doing this and if you
haven't seen the video of me talking
about it I'm going to put it up right
here check it out
