so there's one food that you want to eat
if you want to shrink in EN large
prostate prostate is a gland that wraps
around this little tube underneath your
bladder and when it gets bigger normally
it should be like a size of a walnut
when it enlarges it kind of interferes
with the urine flow and that can keep
you up at night and enlarg prostate can
also turn into a cancer situation and
the name that they use for this enlar
prostate is called benign prostatic
hyperplasia what's involved here well
this is kind of what the theory is in
order for the prostate to enlarge you
have to have certain type of hormones
that activate it okay and one is called
testosterone because testosterone is a
anabolic hormone that you know helps
your muscles grow so testosterone
through the help of a certain enzyme
will convert into DHD which is a more
powerful form of testosterone and
apparently this DHT is involved in the
enlargement of the prostate and so the
mechanism of one of the top selling
drugs for this condition inhibits that
enzyme to reduce DHT as we age
testosterone goes down DHT also goes
down and also as men age the prostate
enlarges so how can that be a solution
since DHT is normally lower as we get
older it's very confusing so in other
words a apparently the real problem is
that as we age that enzyme increases in
its activity thereby giving you more DHT
and creating a more profound effect over
the prostate as far as the top
medication which I'm not going to
mention they found that by taking the
medication you can decrease the
enlargement of your prostate by about
23% but there's some slight minor
complications side effects decrease
libido increase risk of prostate cancer
as well as a syndrome that can occur
when you stop taking the medication and
that Syndrome has other side effects
like signs of suicidal impulses atrophy
of the penis and the development of
breast tissue but other than that it's
totally fine the question is there a
natural inhibitor of this enzyme the
answer is yes in one study it showed
that it can decrease the risk of an a
prostate enlargement by 21% and prostate
cancer this natural enzyme inhibitor
also decreases inflammation it has a
very potent antioxidant effect and the
name of this compound is called lopine
now lopine is called a carotenoid which
is a kind of a category of a lot of
different plant-based compounds and
lopine is in watermelon it's in carrot
and it's even in grapefruit but if you
want to get a large amount of lopen you
want to get it from Tomatoes if you can
get them from your G Garden or the
Farmers Market that would be great you
can get them as canned tomatoes or
tomato sauce or tomato paste because
apparently the lopine and tomatoes
becomes more bioavailable when you heat
the Tomato of course don't get the
tomato sauce that has the sugar added
get the one that as natural as possible
now the other interesting thing about
lopine is it's a fat soble compound
which means that if you're cooking with
tomatoes you want add a little olive oil
with it because the extra fat with heat
will help extract more of that lopine
from it if you just include maybe twice
a week some type of tomato dish whether
these tomatoes are on your salad or in
some type of dish that would be a really
great thing for your prostate so there
are other things you can take to help
your prostate zinc is at the top of the
list ratol is another compound that they
used with uh lopine now as a side note
uh probably the worst thing for the
prostate is milk because there's certain
uh growth hormones in milk that can
enlarge the prostate as well and even
when I was in practice I remember uh
several older men coming in and and
explaining that every time they consume
some Dairy when they would wake up the
next morning they had a a much worse
time urinating probably because of the
enlargement of the prostate so Dairy is
something you would want to avoid now
that you know the best food for the
prostate the next thing you need to know
is what to avoid there are four things
things to avoid to prevent an enlarge
prostate and I put that in this video
right here check it out
