hi guys did you realize that hyper dose
corn syrup is highly addictive okay now
it follows the same pathways as
consuming cocaine as far as creating an
addiction because it stimulates
endorphins dopamine serotonin which are
all pleasure neurotransmitters okay so
it gives you pleasure and then if you
don't consume it you get withdrawals so
that it experiment with ants and they
found that ants will go after high
fructose corn syrup way more than
glucose artificial sweeteners lactose or
other types of sugars and I think it's
probably because of two things the
amount of triggering of these brain
neurotransmitters and also high fructose
corn syrup doesn't satisfy you like
other sugars would and this is the
problem it not only creates an addiction
but it's setting up for insulin
resistance belly fat and a whole bunch
of other problems so really watch out to
make sure you don't consume it in the
foods that you eat and also as far as in
your drinks and sodas and things like
that alright thanks for watching you I
just wanted to take a moment out to
thank you for your amazing feedback that
you guys are giving me it's just
mind-blowing the successes the winds I
created a link down below so you can
actually type out your full success
story and if you have a before and after
with weight loss that would be awesome
and if you don't have a success with
weight but other things just put an
image of yourself and your personal
success story and I would love to read
it and also share it with others so I
want to just thank you in advance for
doing that but there's a link down below
fill it out but I can't wait to read it
