so in this video we're going to talk
about why you would want to take vitamin
E if you had a fatty liver so there's a
condition called Nash non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis so what does this word
mean right here well a Patou means liver
and stato
means relating to fat fat in a cell or
fat in your liver and then we have itis
inflammation of this word would relate
to a fatty liver that has some
inflammation i think of Nash's kind of
like a fatty liver that's now becoming
inflamed there are several very credible
studies that were done with vitamin E on
Nash because medically they don't know
what to do about it
they don't really recommend the
ketogenic diet low carb they don't
recommend fasting which would really
help this condition if you look this up
there's not a lot of treatment except
for vitamin E vitamin E has demonstrated
significant improvement in steatosis
which is the fatty liver portion
inflammation and ballooning of the
hepatocyte which is the liver cell and
basically what this means is that the
liver cells have degenerated and they're
dying the vitamin E has the power to
reduce the fat inflammation and the
death of the liver cells in adult
patients with nash that don't have
diabetes or cirrhosis if you have
cirrhosis or diabetes I would still
recommend this but I would also
recommend several other things too
which I'll put a link down below if you
want more information about that it's
roughly at least eight parts to the
vitamin E complex you have four
different decaf Rawls and four different
tocotrienols what they used is the
natural version of only one of the two
Corral's alpha tocopherol which is an
antioxidant but of course I would
recommend the whole complex why just
give one part of a vitamin E complex and
they used 800 international units now
there are other studies that I'll put
down below that used up to a thousand
and some other studies that used only
400 but I think between 800 and thousand
would be a good idea vitamin e stops the
transition from going from the fatty
liver to an inflamed liver it's a very
powerful antioxidant and if you think
about it there's all sorts of free
radical damage going on vitamin E can
actually calm that down and put out the
fire and prevent this inflammation as
well as prevent the fibrosis that
happens after that as well just by
taking vitamin E and not changing your
diet probably is not going to change
this that significantly it may a little
bit but if you actually change your diet
and you cut out the carbs that are
causing this right here it's driving the
fat in the liver especially high
fructose corn syrup by doing the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet with in a
minute fasting and then if you actually
add vitamin E on top of that gotta be
like the icing on the cake well maybe I
shouldn't talk about cake right now
but if you also add vitamin C which is
another powerful antioxidant and a food
complex with choline I think you'd have
a really good complete program if you
want additional information about a
fatty liver I have quite a few videos
I'm going to put some of them up right
here check them out
