hey guys in this video I want to share
with you some of the best remedies for
warts okay what is a warrant it's a very
small rough little hard growth it's not
cancerous
it's basically caused by a virus HPV
human papillomavirus okay now think
about viruses a lot of people notice
they're not really alive you can't kill
them they're a piece of genetic material
wrapped in affect that lives in your
body goes in there and activates under
stressful situations or nutritional
deficiency that comes out and it
basically grows okay and invade your
body so here are some good remedies
nicotinamide that's a type of b3 okay
vitamin b3 this is very very powerful to
help eliminate that and then salicylic
acid that's just aspirin you can crush
it up put it topically okay zinc five
milligrams that was also good for
putting viruses back in remission and
also fat soluble garlic you can get it
in tablets that's also really good to
get rid of warts so those are the four
items that I'm going to recommend that
are pretty highly effective okay try it
out and put your comments below hi guys
hey listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause
so take the quiz now and we'll send you
a report
