hi guys I had another question from
someone who has zero appetite okay
they're doing in a minute fasting
they're doing keto and they have no
appetite okay and and some of the videos
I've done before I say don't eat if
you're not hungry
okay so they're just not eating so with
appetite you have to have common sense
because the definition of food really
has two purposes one is to provide fuel
so here you are running your body on fat
fuel and you're fine your body is
actually burning fat it might have a lot
of fat to burn and you're you're feeling
fine okay but the other purpose of food
is to provide nutrients so if you go
longer than a day without eating and you
are nutritionally deficient which a lot
of people are especially electrolytes
you could end up having some problems
passing out a little blood pressure any
number of things I'm gonna recommend
that most people need to eat
at least once a day even if they have no
appetite okay and some people that don't
want to lose weight should consume two
meals a day even if they don't have an
appetite so let's say for example you
are a little hungry and it's 12 o'clock
okay and you eat but after that you're
not hungry and you can go the whole day
into the next day without eating because
you have no appetite I'm gonna recommend
you wait for hours and you eat again
even if you're not hungry
that's for the scenario of someone that
doesn't want to lose any more weight
they just want to maintain your weight
because we want to make sure we're
getting all of our nutrients but you
don't have to consume a very very large
meal you can have a nice sized salad
with a small amount of protein a little
bit of fat because your stomach will
shrink if you do in a minute fasting and
that means that the requirement for food
will be less you don't need as many
calories to survive you don't even need
the required nutrients in some cases you
need a little bit less because your body
is adapting to that so when people ask
the question should I eat if I'm not
hungry well in the morning if you're not
hungry don't eat go as long as you can
but the point is that there is going to
be a point where your appetite
completely goes away and but you still
need the new
and if you have a lot of weight to loose
one meal a day is going to be totally
fine so the body has two choices with
fuel it could run on food fuel or its
own body fat as fuel but don't forget
the other purpose of food which is to
provide nutrients thanks for watching
hey you know what I just want to say
thank you for watching these videos you
made it this far I appreciate your
attention and your precious time
