hey guys Dr Berg here in this video
we're going to talk about green tea now
the reason I haven't talked about green
tea in the past is simply
because one of the properties of green
tea is to speed up the metabolism and
people were not changing their ways not
changing their diet just consuming green
tea thinking that's going to melt off
the fat wouldn't work they would
complain and the whole thing so I really
wanted to just kind of explain what
green tea is green tea and black tea
come from the same exact plant uh black
tea is more oxidized exposed to air and
fermented green tea is not green tea has
a lot of what's called phytochemicals
those are plant-based chemicals that
give unique Health properties that go
beyond vitamins and minerals uh
polyphenols flavonoids those are just
like fancy terms for a series of uh
plant-based chemicals that give a lot of
different properties for example
anti-cancer properties anti-inflammatory
properties anti-radiation
properties supports the cardio vascular
system supports blood sugars supports
blood pressure supports healthy
cholesterol levels but I think uh the
biggest benefit that people like taking
this is simply because they want to
increase their weight loss which it does
that but I think and I'm not positive
but I think the reason why this helps
weight loss is because it helps to
support dysfunctional insulin it helps
insulin resistance so it's just one more
thing that we've been talking about in
the past videos of how to fix that
insulin problem and this is a really
good thing to do it um you can do it as
a tea they have decaffeinated um a
little bit of caffeine um if you're not
overdoing it is going to be okay you can
get it in tablet form without caffeine
so those are all possibilities but if
you want just something to kind of give
you a little boost with the weight loss
this might be a good thing to uh take
and it's been around a long time so try
it out and put your comments below
