are you ready for something
remarkable a simple and effective method
to help you manage all the factors that
add up to long-term weight
loss Dr Eric Berg chiropractor teacher
and weight loss coach is here to discuss
the fat burning tracker coach a
web-based internet program that tracks
lifestyle activities that burn fat and
then gives valuable feedback and support
regarding the influences of hormones on
Foods exercise and sleep this is a brand
new discovery taking weight loss to a
whole new
level the fat burning tracker is unlike
anything you've ever done before it's a
very unique web-based interactive tool
to allow you not only just to lose
weight but to actually get healthy the
whole entire program is based on the
hormone influences over the food the
exercise and the other body changes that
you experience on a daily basis so it's
not based on calories or fat grams it's
based on more important factors those
factors that build your health so you
can lose
weight what we found from doing this
with thousands of people is that you
really don't have a low willpower you
just have never been taught exactly what
to do once you know what to do and we
put your attention on it through the
evolution of going through this process
it's a discovery in how to create health
and how to do it long term the fat
burning tracker builds you up because
what it does is it emphasize those
factors that will make sure that you win
and you get healthy the whole philosophy
is completely different than anything
else out there we're getting it healthy
to lose weight not losing weight to get
healthy and if you follow the program
you will be successful the fat burning
tracker coach.com is a journey of
self-discovery and offers these benefits
the tracker directly addresses you
because the program was designed and
built on an advanced technology plan
platform it has a capability of
collecting and analyzing your
information against the many factors
that affect weight loss and then creates
a program that exactly fits your
circumstances results are much easier to
attain as you're following a program
designed around the important hormone
influencing factors that trigger fat
burning it's online and very easy to
interact with as part of your daily
routine uh there must have been a lot of
work that went into the background of
this to to program you know the breaking
down the food into the different
different um elements and then um
outputting that putting that out in a
report format with graphs you know you
can see pictures of exactly what you're
you're consuming and how that impacts
your health what's interesting about
what the fat buring tracker actually
tracks is that we're tracking all the
input in the body as compared to
everything else out there is tracking
the output they're checking your blood
they're checking your urine they're
checking the different fluids but no
one's checking what's going in your body
that's going to end up with a deficiency
down the road by the time you find a
deficiency in your blood or urine you've
already had it for a long time in the
practitioner supervised version of the
fat burning tracker you have a personal
health coach to speed up your progress
significantly keeping you on track every
inch of the way I think using the fat
burning
tracker.com this time around you know I
thought oh my gosh here we go another
diet we'll see how this goes you know
I'll lose weight for a while and then it
always comes back this time it's
different because it's geared more from
my body type um I get feedback it talks
about you know do this don't do this do
more of this so I get a feedback about
what I'm doing and I don't feel like the
weight I've lost is going to come back
because I understand more about the
hormones one of the challenges with
weight loss is getting started going
through falling through completing it
and knowing exactly what to do
uh the Fab printing tracker has lots of
tools to tell you what to do but in the
practitioner supervised version you have
the access to a trained health coach
that will help you with anything that
comes up they're responsible for getting
you through the program to the very end
to make sure you achieve your goal so
you'll have questions that come up you
might have some pain that comes up or
you might have some type of symptom that
comes up and you want help with or you
want answers you'll be able to go into
the dialogue box box ask ask the
question get the answer very quickly so
you can get back on
track here's how the practitioner
supervised version works after entering
your password the program takes you to
this page here simply enter in your
foods for the day you have two choices
you can click on the general Foods
here and then more specific Foods in the
next
box or you can use this button to
quickly enter your foods which
automatically inserts what you
ate enter in all the food for the day
and press update and you're done with
that page if you can't find a food use
this button here called can't find a
food next press body changes this allows
you to answer questions and rate
different things like sleep stress pain
Cravings energy and digestion when
you're done press update
lastly press the exercise button and
either type in the time you exercised if
it was a low pulse rate activity or
scroll down to the Anor robic exercise
which will rate additional factors press
update and you're done if you've not
exercised just press update and leave
things
blank within a week your health coach
will get with you in person or by phone
and review your graphs and progress and
make recommendations
the available graphs include the types
of food you're eating including the
amounts of proteins sugars refined
grains and even water retainers compared
to what you should be consuming for your
body type you'll also see graphs on your
trends of stress sleep energy and
digestion mineral levels and Omega fatty
acid amounts and ratios are also graphed
each week you get other detailed reports
including the fat burning graph which
show you how many days you reached into
fat burning for that week the goal is to
keep you at the top level you can click
this button here to see what you need to
work
on if you have questions go to the
dialogue box and enter in your request
for information here when you get an
answer you'll see it on your log
page many questions can be answered
through the educational tab or the help
button
here ask our front desk about your next
step in getting started with the fat
burning tracker
