the most dangerous way to lose weight
when you mimic starvation by doing a
fast you trigger all these different
genes that not only help you lose more
weight and burn fat you also live longer
you have better cardiovascular better
blood sugars but my question is way in
the past when we had a famine and
adapted to it through these genetics
didn't we also have a drought if that's
true don't we have genes that also
protect us against dehydration I looked
it up and the answer is absolutely
there's over 50 different genes that
protect us and also produce a lot of
health benefits including decreased risk
for cancer and all sorts of things now I
know what you're probably thinking wow
dehydration is dangerous and we need
water Because by the time we're thirsty
it's too late we're already dehydrated
you ever hear that I stumbled on this
amazing study I want to share with you
it was on little birds that can fly
across the desert without water just
survive and there was a study in the
first group they fed them food and water
the second group no food just water and
the third group no food and no water
that's called dry fasting and the
results blew me away the dry fasting
group generated six times more water
than the group that only drank water the
dry fasting group also burned more fat
but when fat is burned with oxygen from
the air the chemistry of it turns it
into water I think we can use dry
fasting to our benefit 12 hours of dry
fasting for 30 days there's a lot of
research into that area that shows a lot
of health benefits and not many problems
not many side effects if any so when
we're talking about shortterm dve
fasting I'm only talking about 12 hours
and maybe 20 hours to start out I'm not
talking about some long dry fast okay
but I first want to tell you where this
whole water thing came from as far as
people pushing water on you it's
actually developed from a campaign when
the government partnership with certain
corporations called drink up don't drink
the tap water we must have bottle water
so the companies that sell bottle water
are behind those campaigns and they
basically brainwashed I'm sorry educated
us that we need to drink more water CU
dehydration is the most dangerous thing
well if that's true then we should also
never go without food we should probably
eat every hour and be nourished what's
interesting about the water bottling
companies the top three companies Nestle
Coke and Pepsi same companies that sell
you know Ultra process foods and liquid
candy or soda pop energy drinks with a
lot of sugar they basically have have
markets on both sides right they have
water side and also the junk food side
so listen I'm not against water just
drink when you're thirsty but you may
want to look at this dry fasting as an
extra tool to use when you need to Let's
dive into the details of this there's
some rules you want to go slow okay you
don't want to just jump into fasting
right away because you want to First
adapt to fat burning so you want to get
on a lower carb diet for a while to make
it easy on use that's going to get
things ready for you to do the fast your
shift over to burning more fat and then
when you transition into fasting it's
like really easy you have no Cravings
your hunger goes away and it makes it
doable if you do fasting you always want
to start with the water fasting okay
before the dry fasting so with water
fast you're taking supplements like
electrolytes B vitamins sea salt with
dry fast you're not consuming any
electrolytes any pills you're not
drinking coffee you're not doing any
with water and your body will start to
adapt and hold on to the salt and water
as much as it can with this shift in
hormones but I'm telling you a lot of
people have never got their body into a
state where they're actually making
water but then you want to kind of
graduate into the dry fast on a very
small little level that's fairly easy
but I think it can produce massive
results even if you do it it in a
smaller scale why because one day of dry
fasting is equal to 3 days of water
fasting some other things that you want
to do is stay in a cool environment
don't make the mistake I made by
spending a lot of time outside sweating
you don't want to do that because that's
going to really dehydrate you even more
now I did fine but I can tell it was
just too much stress because listen when
you're dry fasting you're turning off
your digestion your kidneys are not
having to work hard so all of this
resource that your body has can switch
to repair healing regenerating fixing
stuff so we don't want to necessarily be
adding high-intensity exercise you can
walk you don't want to be sweating and
doing work outside that's involving more
dehydration okay I made that mistake so
don't do that and also when you get into
the longer fast and you refeed you want
to just do liquid type stuff a little
bit maybe 8 oz every 4 hours for the
first day the second day and the third
day this is more for a longer fast but I
just want to let you know that you want
to really gradually introduce your food
slowly keer is good to help fortify the
gut bone broth is good but this video is
just to kind of give you another tool to
potentially use to help you lose more
weight by putting your body in a state
where it can only get water from fat so
it's forced to burn more fat so I think
the first step you should do is to learn
how to do the ketogenic low carb diet
and for that I put this video up right
here check it out
