so today we're gonna talk about why
Mexico has surpassed the US and obesity
rates in Mexico the rate of becoming
obese is thirty two point eight percent
for adults and in the u.s. it's thirty
one point eight percent so Mexico is
rated number one in obesity not
something you want to be rated for
seventy percent of adults are overweight
childhood obesity spiked up three times
within the past ten years
and diabetes has doubled since the year
2000 no other country has experienced
the rise and obesity of that magnitude
so the question is now before I tell you
the answer I want to see what you think
go ahead and type the answer down below
okay I'll just wait I'll just wait until
you do that okay I'll show you Mexico
who consumes more soda than any other
country in the world and coca-cola
controls 73 percent of the Mexican is
drink market as compared to the u.s.
they only control 42 percent now any
time you're trying to figure something
out
whether it's a symptom or something like
this you want to look at what happened
what was introduced what was a change
right before the spike in a worsening of
a symptom or in this case the major
spike in obesity and this thing is so
obvious before the spike in obesity they
were not drinking as much soda and now
they are and yes there was a decrease in
vegetable consumption by 30% but that
does not compare with the massive spike
of soda and of course coca-cola wants to
retain that control so they're
sponsoring this programs called exercise
is medicine which basically distracts
everyone from the sugar that spikes
insulin that causes you to get fat and
the problem is exercise only gives you
15% of your results 85% of your weight
loss results occurs by changing your
diet alright guys thanks for watching
and comment below
on what your thoughts and considerations
are about this situation
