hey Dr Burke here I want to answer the
question why does insulin resistance
cause weight gain another common
question people want to know this well
we have this thing called the pancreas
the pancreas makes this hormone called
insulin insulin has a message to store
fat in the presence of insulin you're
going to make a lot of fat okay that's
one of the functions so what happens is
the pancreas
reacts to certain foods like sugar bread
pasta crackers pancakes and it starts to
increasing right over a period of time
the body says no no no that's too much
it's rejecting it so it starts to build
up a resistance to this insulin so it
doesn't allow it to go in the cell
anymore it kind of like pretend like it
has ear plugs right here it can't hear
so what happens all these hormones and
glands are on a feedback loop
okay so glands are the things that make
hormones and hormones are the
communications that travel between just
like right now I'm talking to you and
I'm sending messages to you you're
hearing me and I can't quite see you but
if you're in here in person I would
actually be able to communicate back and
forth we just have a communication cycle
going on here so what happens we don't
get a full return communication
because it's blocked at the cell level
whether at the liver or at the cell
level okay so now the pancreas never
gets the offs off signals to turn it off
okay it never gets the return
communication it's kind of like talking
to your child and they're ignoring you
you're going to increase your volume so
now the pancreas will go oh really okay
let's pump out more and more and more
insulin okay because it's blocked it's
not getting through
so then maybe a little get through
so a person with insulin resistance has
five to seven times more insulin than a
normal person and that's why they gain
weight because of the excess insulin
simply because this cell is blocked and
the medication for diabetes especially
type 2 would be called metformin
metformin makes this receptor open up
more it helps it receive it it actually
kind of um kind of opens up the channel
to allow this thing to feedback but what
they don't really do is correct the
reason why the insulin's spiking in the
first place so you really have to
correct the diet and get that person off
sugar permanently and other things too
okay so all right so I hope that helped
thanks for watching
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
