[Music]
hey everyone welcome back we have a
great new Skype from Sean raiga so
welcome Sean thank you so you're you're
on the beach here I saw the background
so we flipped the camera so I can
actually see you better but hey can you
tell us a little bit about your history
of what you kind of been through his
struggles with your weight I want to
know more about that sure
well um kind of overweight as a kid I
was plenty active but I think I just had
a poor diet and so that continued into
my adulthood I'm very tall so I can
carry the weight fun I mean I'm 5/8 I'm
not that tall but I'm I can carry it
better than some but I just love sweets
and I have my whole life and I just it
makes it's probably my go-to you know
some people drink I eat donuts Wow you
said that sound like me yeah that's my
story so you ate a lot of sugar in your
life yes Wow
yes I do it's it's sometimes that would
be my meal um you know cookies with my
coffee I don't know I just say it way
too much of it and I realized towards
the end of last year that I was kind of
getting out of control I was the
heaviest I had ever been and it wasn't
going down when that is your peak wait
what did you uh what was the top weight
thank you um 195 which is pretty you
know I hadn't even wait for a while
because I knew it was not good but it I
just it was really I kind of got to this
turning point I believe that I felt like
if I didn't do something then I was
probably just not gonna worry about it
but the problem I mean yeah of course
you want to look good
but I was really starting to feel bad
and so I just decided I've got to do
something you know looking better would
be definitely be a bonus but I just felt
overwhelmed like you know habitual
dieter my whole life yep you know yo-yo
in middle school I can't remember going
with my now sister-in-law you know
friend back then with her mom to Weight
Watchers and you know that was you know
kind of I mean who wants to think about
that when you're 15
and I can even remember even farther
back I'll never forget it because this
is when they weighed you in elementary
school you stood in a line you went to
the clinic and you got weighed well I
was taller than everybody anyway but I
weighed 84 pounds in second grade which
you know kind of up there but I just
remember being humiliated and then I
probably went home and ate so anyway I
just nothing had worked for me and it
was discouraging and you know I could
walk and really count calories was the
last thing I did which worked but again
if you're not you know having great
results it was really not a lifestyle to
stick with because I was hungry all the
time and so anyway I heard about you
from a friend of mine who actually I
graduated from high school with but I've
not seen her
we've only facebooked and she said this
was maybe the end of Mad December she
all of her Facebook friends if you have
never heard of dr. Berg you need to
check him out because I've lost a fair
amount of weight in a short amount of
time and I can do it anybody can do it
so that was all I needed to hear because
I just encouraged me and the like well
what have I got to lose except you know
weight plus feeling better so then I
checked you out
Wow did you one of those symptoms did
you have when you're a heavy like what
kind of we said you felt bad was it
fatigue was it memory what was it um
well it was
I really was had no stamina which I have
you know been better off you know and
previously like I said I have a physical
job clean homes I also have a little
farm you know come family farm so you
know I'm hauling feed bags and throwing
him around and I'm fairly strong but I
would just like then go sit down
and you know if there was many stairs or
anything I mean I could do it but I was
very winded and I could tell it was it
was worse than I had imagined from you
know previous exertion so I was kind of
getting worried that I really had
something wrong with me but now I didn't
go to the doctor I had no pant you know
blood panels done or anything but I want
to tell you that since you know I've
been you know watching the videos and
everything that you have that about
maybe 18 months ago I had I was having
an eye problem still I am but what they
said to me was are you diabetic and then
I thought well no I'm not I haven't been
to the doctor how do I know by this very
fast growing cataract in one of my eyes
and since I went I mean it's completely
clouded I'm blind in one eye basically
and so I do need to you know get that
taken care of that I'm hoping and that
will be one of my questions for you if
you think with the with some of your the
NAC drops and changing my diet if it can
ever be fully reversed but sorry to get
off on it - you know I think let's not
let's talk about that right now
do you have any at all sensation
tingling burning numbness in your
fingers or your toes no okay good
cataracts usually are related to blood
sugars but it's also a very severe b1
deficiency
I have nutritional yeast tablets that
are non fortified
there really may have some b12 but
that's probably a good source to be one
I would probably take six of those a day
and and those drops and then continue on
the eating plan because I think and I'm
not making any claim sir I think that
can greatly improve your situation
I'm not saying a hundred percent but
maybe but I would go in that direction
because especially because think about
what happens with the diabetic the eyes
are the first to go and a lot of
diabetics have cataracts and the B
vitamins get depleted with sugar yes and
so I'm just really I never knew all of
this till I started watching your videos
and then you know reading more about
what causes them and that now I feel
terrible that this could have been
prevented and and the other thing that
stuck in my mind was so I went through
the whole test to have the surgery last
the end of last year but I didn't want
to meet I hadn't met my deductible and I
didn't want to meet at that end of the
year so I thought huh I'll wait till the
beginning of the year then my new
insurance didn't take that doctor so
which is why I have not gotten it done
yet but I remember sitting in his office
thinking and I asked him that like well
what has cost this he's not the one that
said it it was like an optometrist so
they sent me to the ophthalmologist and
I said well I grew up in Florida I've
been in the Sun my whole life and he
said this isn't from the Sun and I
thought oh but you know he didn't really
go any farther than that but he said but
if you have it in one you will have it
in the other it's just a matter of time
and I just left the office being like
depressed because having one vision in
one eye because now I mean I can see
light but no color it's completely
opaque I guess that's the right word and
because of how your eyes work together
I'm like feeling like I'm cross-eyed all
the time anyway so
wasn't the main reason because I didn't
realize it at the time but now I'm
really thinking is it was cost for my
diet yeah I mean it's uh never know that
well I think it's the most obvious thing
and the the challenge of the medical
profession is they're they're stuck in
this well we don't know yet we have to
do research this L is this big it's a
big lack of connection between what you
put in your mouth and then because they
don't understand through therapy
everyone they it gets worse so like well
you're it's inevitable it's nothing you
can do the point is that if you do some
research just type in cataracts and b1
deficiency and you'll find all this
interesting data but if you actually had
years of become becoming depleted that
lack of b1 affects the chemistry of all
sorts of things in all the cells so you
know sometimes it'll affect the feet
sometimes it affects the retina
sometimes it affects the lens of the eye
just affects everyone differently but I
think you're on the right track I would
like you can see what it is right now I
would continue this and just see if it
improves over the next few months with
what you do but the body the body can
change I mean you'd be surprised I had
one guy he came to my office and he laid
on the table and his arms and his legs
completely went dead when he had lay
down he wasn't even concerned about that
I'm like aren't you worried about the
guys no it's fine so because even he
stands up he can just pound them and get
him back to work so I found out what
he's eating he's having pancakes a big
stack of pancakes the best not the
problem it's the cup 12 ounce cup of
maple syrup which is high fructose corn
syrup He pours on there and that's what
he consumes for his breakfast I didn't
want to talk about his lunches dinner so
I told him I said dude that's going to
kill you that is gonna kill you but he
just he just wasn't aware he wasn't
interested at that point he was a
typical guy like you have to be nearly
dead well anyway months later he came my
office with glasses I walked in the room
and he had dark glasses on
and he had a cane and his sister was
with him he was blind now he's living a
life of Darkness I'm like completely
unavailable I mean if you would have
just done something you know wake up I
mean take care of your body you got to
live in your body so then he came in he
wanted to do something about it
can you help me I'm like no it's too far
gone what were were you you know months
ago that's not gonna happen to you but
getting back to your weight like you
were 190 like what are you now I'm right
now i'm 154 wow that's incredible yeah
and so I've had a little ways to go just
for my personal preference but I feel so
much better in so many other ways except
for my I you know more stamina just feel
healthier in general and um you know I
just don't know why that we are not told
this this is why it's hard for me to
believe but but the interesting thing is
that my mom was a diabetes education
nurse before she retired and did she
ever tell me any thing about sugar
no she liked when I would be dieting at
different times she would say oh well
you know complex carbohydrates missus
the peanut butter with the cracker and
I'm thinking why but now why the cracker
you know and so I never heard it from
her she taught people not her fault
because I'm sure she was you know had to
go to her seee classes to eat you
classes by the sugar you know that's
funded by big sugar I'm sure of what she
you know the food pyramid and all that
um and I'm yeah it's not her fault but
I'm just wondering like I had never
heard that but fat you know some fats in
moderation are okay here I'm cutting
every all the fat out and not worrying
about the carbs you know or the you
know sugar
so it's just it's amazing to me like
there's even certain doctors that are
saying the problem is the saturated fats
you have to get off the saturated fats
sugars are okay yeah so it's it's
frustrating but unfortunately yeah we're
basically in this kind of a trap
of getting the wrong information and we
keep getting worse and you almost have
to stumble on it you know here and there
and because if you even search on how to
get healthy how to lose weight on the
internet the top page is WebMD I mean it
just goes right to the list it's hard to
find the truth on on health when you do
searches on the internet so right well
now I my mom has to I be just so you
know and it's very hard although I we
don't live in the same city so and I do
talk to her every day but it's hard for
me because I'm not an expert to educate
the educator because I just think that
she has that's just you know she's kind
of old school that way and you know when
I'm hearing you know about what they had
for dinner or whatever and my brother
goes over there sometimes and there's
lots of cookie wrappers like why are you
even eating those you know like I she
shouldn't be so anyway um you know I've
got to figure out how to address that in
a way that can you know they don't have
internet or I'd be sending her to your
channel I mean you know they're old
school they don't have a smartphone it
sounds like the more educated the more
educated someone is the harder it is to
them to be willing to learn something so
yeah I'm gonna take these people that
have like really so-called trained in
the wrong information they've such fixed
ideas it's like it's tough I mean it's
run into them all the time I know I
could only imagine it especially if your
mom taught it like it'd be like well
wait a second um I taught this you know
so yeah no I'm just trying to you know
maybe be an example she hasn't seen me
in a long time so but
I mean I've told her I don't I've cut
this out or cut that out but I haven't
even I did at the beginning of year get
a membership to a gym with a friend of
mine but then I just you know heard in
one of your videos you know don't work
out too hard because of the cortisol you
know just walk or you know do do some
cardio but don't do anything too
strenuous because it's you know maybe
later on when you get where you want to
be um so I haven't been there too often
but I have you know do see this friend
of mine that we joined together and I
have lost a lot of weight and she has
lost probably not very much but she
hasn't really changed her diet so but
she was very impressed so I you know
gave her sent her a few links to
different videos to watch because I just
think until people do it you do not
realize how it works and I probably
wouldn't have either and it's I mean I
can follow directions and I can stick to
things if I see results I guess that was
the thing that really helped me is
because you know it took a few several
weeks but you know it was 2 pounds 2
more pounds um it was enough and it
wasn't just the weight it was the way my
clothes were fitting which was you know
I knew something was going on with that
but I was just feeling so much better
and you know most of the cravings have
gone every now and then I think about a
Publix cupcake and I wonder if they
taste the same but I just don't it's not
worth it to me and I've had family
members say are you just never gonna eat
sugar again and I'm like maybe you know
probably because it's bad for you but
you know I don't get on my Bandstand but
they just said well I don't want to
deprive myself and I'm thinking of being
healthy but you know that's just where I
am in my mind and they're not there so
hey well can I show you something yes so
that's one of the reasons why I
personally I like ice cream so I I now
have a nice
there's no sugar we're working on trying
to get in the grocery stores but it's
gonna take a long time but the point is
that when you eat the problem with sugar
is it has 23 grams 20 actually 36 grams
of sugar that's even per serving that's
1/2 of a cup you know so so we'll have a
zero sugar and I just sent it to one of
my diabetic patients who is recovering
and doing great so I had her test it it
barely increased her blood Sugar's so
that's cool so anyway like well we know
now we have to put some chocolate in
there so I want to show you this right
here I don't know if you can see it see
this right here oh yes this here is I
found an artesian chocolate artist spade
he's an artist because he he makes the
best chocolate and I wanted him to make
it with a monk fruit which actually has
it's better than Steven because there's
no not to taste okay I've seen that at
the store from the extractor it's with
the stevia monk fruit and I wondered
it's a really good sugar a bit pricey
but it's a really good sugar because it
has no aftertaste it's really sweet so
anyway we've made the chocolate zero
sugars so I really like it so when I'm
done with this Skype I'm gonna go
upstairs to my staff and I'm gonna give
them samples and see if they like it but
I'm trying to find you know an
alternative so a person wouldn't have to
give up everything they can actually
have just alternative type things I mean
like Halloween for example did you have
any trick-or-treaters no well I live out
on property so I have a gate so now so I
mean I think the trick-or-treaters that
came to my house last year basically
we're gonna tour the paper my house
because we gave these little toys and
pens and they're like what is this you
know so it's really hard to have some
alternative stuff so I mean sooner or
later I mean we start off eating sugar
at such an early age and we just keep
feeding these kids and you know I I'm
like the perfect example and then we get
older and we wondering like why is our
body just going downhill so there has to
be some substitute verses you can't ever
eat sugar again
that's the point but like what are there
have you noticed that your cognitive
function is improved at all yes I would
say so I think that I mean of course if
you know you're tired you might not be
as sharp but definitely so I just feel
sharper in general I think because I
just feel you know when I get up in the
morning I'm ready to go and I do get
tired you know but I get up early so you
know by 10:00 o'clock I'm kind of shot
but yes that is definitely better and
then what about when do you eat what's
your first meal of the day what times
well if I'm home you probably like it
around 11 ish um like if I'm gonna be
home for the day and that I did have a
question for you about that because I
always try to get in my kale shake so I
know a lot of people eat that with their
breakfast um sometimes I just have that
for breakfast I mean that's enough so
I'm not gonna eat it if I'm you know
more if I'm not hungry but the problem
but um I just
my question is because I am trying to do
the intermittent fasting but like like
this morning well I was a little hungry
and I wanted to get the kale shaken and
now I won't probably be home till 5:00
or 6:00 so I'm gonna try not to eat
anything you know at all till I get home
but I didn't have anything else you know
I didn't have eggs so I don't know if
that's gonna last me but um I just
wondered like if you have that for a
snack I mean I know you don't promote
snacking but if I was to have a snack
you know if I just couldn't make it does
that raise your blood sugar
not too much not too much I mean if you
take it like what I do in the morning
good amount of the time is I'll get up I
get a bit like five but then about 8
o'clock
I'll take I freeze my kale it's all
chopped I put it in the blender
I actually fill the blender one third
filled I have a pretty powerful blender
I'll put a cup of blueberries I'll put
two teaspoons of the lemon wheatgrass
just because
give it a little bit of a sweet fill the
whole thing with water blend it up for
four minutes and then I don't fill the
whole thing up with water just like
right above the 1/3 because it'll raise
the foam will come up so I'll blend it
performance more four minutes and I'll
actually take I have the big mason jars
which is it'll make three and a half of
those Wow
so I'll drink two of them I'll give one
to my wife if she wants it and that's my
kind of my greens for the whole day
like if I'm I'll do that which is
tremendous amount of greens I might have
a little salad later but you can do it
in the morning and then have your lunch
and then your dinner and it's really
like I would say it's two and a half
meals because it's not gonna spike
insulin okay oh it's gonna be minor that
makes me feel better because I was I
didn't want to cut that out but
sometimes I'm not home at lunch to have
it then but I need something in the
morning but I might not want that and
eggs or I don't have time to make it all
so when I eat my eggs and bacon and
cheese for its really my late morning
which is about twelve my breakfast
I can't I'm like I can't eat a lot of
salad or greens at that point so I might
have my greens either later in the
afternoon
or for dinner or I'll have them early in
the morning so so you do two meals a day
yeah and give me an example of if you
weren't gonna do like cat what what
would you eat for your lunch sometimes
I'll have a lot of times I'll have
celery with peanut butter a little
peanut butter or eggs trying to think
I'm salad you know I try to mix it up a
little bit I could sometimes I could eat
the same thing you know day after day so
but usually or I may just have a big you
know two or three eggs and a little
bacon just just kind of depends by I
didn't eat a lot of celery because
I like it and it with a little peanut
butter it's a great meal and people will
probably say well that's not gonna hold
me but I think after you've gotten used
to eating less because I'm really not
that hungry so that's what I like so
what do you have for dinner um usually
you know some kind of lean meat chicken
or maybe some kind of hamburger
you know usually something on the grill
some kind of lean meat
well it's not always lean chicken or
hamburger meat loaf I make meatloaf with
pork rinds that's a favorite and
vegetable or salad or both just have
eliminated the starch where I used to
always when I planned my meal think Oh
know what first side rice-a-roni know
and my daughter sometimes when she comes
to visit well she's used to it now but
um you know you just get used to eating
that for so long you think that's what
you should eat anyway I don't I don't
miss it we do eat a lot of salads I get
the big box from like Walmart of the
organic spring mix or something so we do
eat a lot of that and I go through
several bills bags of kale a week
awesome
no sweets no desserts although I do
sometimes make a cheesecake because you
can have cream cheese with a little
stevia and eggs and that's pretty nice
it's pretty good is that uh yeah I like
to take um
grass-fed whipping cream put a little
stevia in there and whip it up it's like
I mean that's a dessert right there
right good yes it definitely makes me
more
what's the word creative creative
because um you know I do I do still like
sweet but I definitely don't crave them
and I have I don't really think I'll
fall off that wagon anytime soon just
because it's so it was just so bad for
me
and I just I never realized how bad it's
like a conspiracy oh yeah I know and
it's sometimes it takes a health problem
to motivate people I mean honestly I had
to get to the point where my eyes were
bloodshot and fatigued before I said
okay maybe I should change I mean you're
awesome I probably would have kept going
but this is awesome Sean I really
appreciate just kind of sharing your
story I think it'll just help people to
realize that they can do it there's
another way and I would say one for one
every single person that I talked to
once they get to this state they're not
going back because that now they know
the difference in like why would I go
back to sugar right and I guess what I'm
wondering and I'm sure it's just like
the pharmaceuticals you know when
there's so much money to be lost why
aren't we telling you know kids young
not to do this because I just never
thought it was the only harmful that
would come to me would be a cavity not
diabetes or you know a cataract or you
know the laundry list of other problems
from it's not just overeating I mean yes
I was overweight but it was like you
said at the cellular level what what was
happening from from the sugar and you
know it feeds probably cancer so anyway
I really wish I had heard sooner but
anybody that will listen I'm not
obnoxious but I I want them to know that
there's a you know it's easier if
there's an easier way but you do have to
stick to it I think that brings up just
a key point that I want to talk about
just real briefly is that my whole thing
is I just like to help people that want
how
so that's why I'm always telling people
spread the word start telling your
friends and there's certain people that
are ready and willing and interested
other people are not so that's totally
fine you could do what you want but
those people that are interested in
being educated on a better way to do it
those are the people that I'm I'm
interested in working with so definite
we just have to spread the word because
there are people out there that are
interested willing they want to get
better and they want to try a new thing
and they're sick of being tired and fat
and enflamed you know right yes that's
that's I would say that's probably what
I was I'm sure I had all kinds of
inflammation and you know every part of
my body and so it just sort of
manifested itself with my eye problem
but I just know I was definitely I was
just so sluggish well you saw my picture
I sent in I mean not only did I lose
weight but it I feel like I act younger
but I think I look younger which I'm
sure there's some connection there I
think so you get healthy on the inside
it shows up on the outside so what we'll
have to do is do another video and let's
say four months okay and then we'll talk
about your I talk about your weight and
and just see how much will this compare
this video to the next one so we'll do
like a transition I think that'd be a
great video yes that'd be great can I
ask you one question
I know in one of your twelve several of
your videos you talked about autoimmune
because you know how it manifests itself
in different ways but you have to get to
the source of the problem well my mom
who has has diabetes but she also has
sarcoidosis which is the autoimmune
problem that affects her lung it can
affect your heart but with her it's a
lot of scarring in the lung so my
question is she's has to take prednisone
she was diagnosed with this in 2000 so
and it's you know she's really struggled
with it you know a difference she's been
in the hospital numerous times for
pneumonia which you always have to I
mean it doesn't cost pneumonia but
because your lungs are so compromised
she ends up sometimes in the ICU but my
question is and I don't know I haven't
really asked her about this I'm not sure
if her diabetes was caused from
long-term prednisone use but if it is
can that I mean she can't stop taking
prednisone because that's what controls
the inflammation but I guess my question
is could that be could her diabetes be
reversed if she eliminated the cookies
waffles muffins you know your whole list
of sweets breads or no because of the
prednisone well do you know do you know
what prednisone is a hormone you know
which one it is
cortisol you know what gland makes it um
the adrenals mm-hmm so here she is
taking an adrenal hormone to help
suppress her sarcoid or sarcoidosis
right right because it's an
anti-inflammatory and also it helps it's
given to almost every autoimmune case so
that's interesting like you're taking
something to give to support the adrenal
to help your autoimmune simply because
the actual root cause is the weak in
adrenal in the first place because it's
that hormone naturally cortisol is not
working to to regulate the immune system
so at some point something shifted
probably related to stress or something
and then what happened is the immune
system started doing a self attack and
now she's stuck doing that and yes
taking prednisone one of the big side
effects is it turns your muscles into
sugar it increases the sugar way way up
and it burns out the cells of the
pancreas causing diabetes and it's right
in Cybil encyclopedia for endocrinology
page 86 it talks to right about the
relationship between high levels of
cortisone or prednisone and diabetes
so yeah that's probably what caused it
now she would have to be really willing
to you know try different ways support
the adrenals with nutrition for a period
of time changed the diet get on in a
minute fasting that will then stimulate
a toughie gene start cleaning up all the
inflammation and old cells and start
reversing this process I think she could
if she was willing to make changes but
yeah it's um I mean you can see the down
little effect from stress to drug to
diabetes to so you have to I mean it's
it's not that complex when you
understand some of these key points but
all right okay well I it's definitely
worth looking into
for her if I could just get her mind to
shift about it because who wants to be
sick but I think she's about giving up
that that's this will be her quality of
life which is really not too good right
yeah give it a shot see if she's willing
to look at it I think that's the key is
uh will you please watch a video or
something and see what she says right
I'll let you know okay great well thanks
a lot I appreciate it all your help and
what you're doing for everyone my
friends Wendy by the way Wendy Patton oh
I don't know if you've interviewed her
or not but um I know sometimes she's on
your life you know she asks question on
your live show wendypatton but anyway
she's the one that um has been you know
spreading the word so I have her to
thank because you know that's why I try
to tell people because it you know I
just I don't know why it stuck in my
mind about you know that day with her
but it definitely is life-changing for
me because I just can hardly believe it
um but it's but it works that's awesome
well Thank You Wendy for spreading the
word because look what happened look
what you created right here that's
awesome
all right you have a great Oh I'll let
up talk to you in a few months
okay good okay thank you you're welcome
