hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about too much calcium I
want to teach you something I want to
teach you the relationship between
symptom and root cause and when we're
talking about all these symptoms of high
calcium what we don't want to get into
is treating these all separately because
then we're going around in circles there
is a huge relationship between too much
calcium and what I mean by too much
calcium is I'm talking about Cal
that is locked up in your body that's
unable to transport in the body it's
stuck there um there's other names for
too much calcium like hyper calcemia in
the blood um but if you're over the age
of 50 and you're female and you're
taking calcium and you're taking calcium
carbonate you want to watch this video
because calcium carbonate is basically
Limestone you'd be better off chewing on
the cement out there because it's just
rocks you'll end up having a lot of
these problems because you're taking the
wrong type of calcium and you're not
taking the other factors to De deliver
this calcium into the tissues so if
someone has too much calcium or too much
unavailable calcium they will get some
bone pain uh they'll have
insomnia um because especially of the
heads let's say you're exhausted and you
need to sleep but your head won't turn
off it's very active it won't go to
sleep that means you have too much
calcium uh I'll talk about the remedies
in a little bit but that that's one of
the symptoms soft tissue
calcification um this calcium kind of
starts plugging up all the soft tissues
like of the kidney as a kidney stone the
gallbladder as gall stones arteries as
plaing the eyes as cataracts arthritis
berstis tendinitis all the iises and
that's just because the calcium is not
able to be
mobilized then we get constipation
constipation is One symptom of too much
Cal calcium why because calcium causes a
contraction of the smooth muscle that's
why it causes bronchial spasm 2 of the
lung or asthma symptoms because there's
too much Cal contraction and not enough
relaxation um excessive urination that's
one symptom as well this could come from
diabetes and other things but too much
calcium is one of the symptoms of um too
excessive urination then we have the um
cramps like muscle cramps especially at
night uh if your toes start bending like
this and you Flex them and it starts
cramping that's too much calcium anxiety
yeah anxiety is one of the symptoms
arhythmia that's a big one um high blood
pressure if you think about one of the
treatments to high blood pressure they
use calcium channel blockers now what do
they mean by calcium channel blockers
all they're doing is they're blocking
calcium because you got too much calcium
the opposing mineral to calcium is
magnesium and that is one of the best
natural calcium channel block that you
can get
but why not just take something like
that to mobilize the calcium so we have
to understand what is the root cause and
again this could also be a symptom of
these lacking of these other factors
that and that's what I'm going to talk
about next so how do you develop too
much calcium number one you become
deficient in the fat cble vitamins that
would be vitamin specifically vitamin D
uh vitamin
K2 and vitamin F which is basically the
uh essential fatty acids that would be
like fish oils because if you think
about when people take fish oil they
usually take it for arhythmia high blood
pressure asthma cramps constipation
arthritis they take these remedies but
they don't realize what they're doing is
they're just mobilizing calcium to
improve the symptoms so vitamin D3 you
could also end up in a situation this is
very rare but you could take too much
vitamin D and not enough of the other
ones right here and end up with this
problem too because vitamin D increase
the absorption of calcium but it only
will increase it up into the blood it
doesn't push it into the tissue so it
can plug everything up and that's why I
always recommend if you're going to take
calcium always take vitamin D3 with it
and K2 and I take 10,000 IUS of vitamin
D3 uh and then I would take 100
micrograms of vitamin
K2 and you might it's not K1 so you're
going to have to get the right one K2 is
quite amazing because it will clean up
the calcium in the arteries the
calcification it cleans up the calcium
and the soft tissues vitamin K2 will
even help these other syp Syms blood
pressure and Asthma because it takes all
this calcium and delivers it all the way
into the tissues and also the fish oils
now fish oils are really really good I
love Civ oil but if you have any um
problems with your memory I would
recommend something called
DH a you can get that from the heal
store DHA that's a type of fish oil um
that is very high in a certain type of
good fat that supports the brain it's
good for attention problems it's it's
good for um fertility it's good for the
retina um it's good for the heart the
skin so that would be a good fat to take
too but good Civ oil would be very very
essential if you if you want to protect
yourself from too much calcium so that's
that's what I recommend for the vitamins
but here's here's the more likely
problem that people have they're taking
these vitamins already but they don't
have enough bio from the gallbladder
your gallbladder is right here and it
produces something called bio b i l e
not bowel but bile bile helps you break
down fat specifically fat suble vitamins
a d e and K and F so if you don't have a
gallbladder or you're bloated all the
time or you have constipation which
means you don't have enough bile or you
have right shoulder pain those are all
symptoms of a lack of bile then go ahead
and take some bile and then you'll
actually start absorbing these fat CYO
vitamins and all of a sudden things
start really working so we want to give
the remedy but make sure that you can
absorb the remedy as well okay so we got
the gallbladder U and lack of magnesium
that's a common thing because magnesium
is the opposing mineral to calcium so
magnesium will help Drive calcium down
because they teer totter so magnesium is
not a bad thing to take to help these
conditions as well so if you really um
look at the big picture calcium is
influenced by vitamins minerals uh and
other things like pH so a little bit
information is might be too D dangerous
because you'll he that oh yeah I've lost
a bone and I need to take calcium but
you don't understand that there's other
parts to this puzzle alkalinity and this
is another myth that people um always
talk about that everyone is too acid and
we need to alkalize everyone uh that is
a really big myth and you should watch
the video on alkal um on pH on my blog
because
if you are under a lot of stress and you
have a high level of stress hormone
called cortisol from the adrenal over
time that will make you very very
alkaline in the blood yet your pH of
your urine is too acid so when I talk
about pH I'm not talking about your
urine or your saliva I'm talking about
the blood and it's very very hard to
detect that but one way you can detect
it is if you have a lot of arthritis and
Sal uh in calcium problems that's right
so
if your body is especially your blood is
too alkaline you won't be able to
transport the calcium properly so it
kind of and that that would also apply
to like if someone's getting older and
their stomach acids are are not as
strong like let's say they're losing
their stomach acid they can't absorb all
this calcium so it plugs everything up
and that's a very common cause as well
or if you have a stressed out person uh
your body starts getting alkaline and
you start to helping all these symptoms
because you can't absorb and transport
the calcium because your pH is off one
of the simple remedies for this is apple
cider vinegar a teaspoon and a glass of
water I would do you could probably put
it in all of your water through the day
as you drink it um because it'll
actually start to bring the PH down more
acidic and start mobilizing the calcium
out of the tissues I mean think about
Alid of vinegar as an A A an ancient
remedy for insomnia and even pain AR IAS
high blood pressure
cramps yeah the reason why it works is
because it
mobilizes calcium so I hope you enjoyed
this video and I will see you in the
next one
