hey guys today we're going to talk about
something called mTOR my millions target
of rapamycin okay i'm gonna make it
really really simple okay because
there's a lot of complexities and what
this is it's certain pathways
biochemical pathways it is a certain
pathway mainly the master controller of
protein synthesis okay
that's really what it is and when it's
high it promotes growth in the body and
even it could simulate the growth of
cancer or tumors okay when it's low the
pathways are different it's more for
repair and maintenance of the body okay
and when it's low you stimulate etapa G
Thapa G is the recycling of damaged
proteins and old proteins that are not
needed and the recycling of that into
new amino acids to build new tissue
it's like anti aging so the goal is to
keep it low if you're an adult now the
question is what will make it high well
the two things that fuel it are
basically glucose and amino acids okay
now if we do a keto diet we're actually
going low insulin and we're going a
moderate protein if we add in a minute
fasting we're going to go even lower
protein because our body doesn't need as
much protein it recycles more we can get
an etapa G and we can actually have
lower and tor so basically keto and
intimate of fasting will keep this under
control and put your body in a repair
mode in a maintenance mode alright
thanks for watching hey before you go
I'm gonna create some new videos on food
evaluation okay so if you'd like to
participate I can't promise that you'll
be the person I'll choose so here's what
you're gonna do you're gonna take a
picture of what you're eating a close-up
okay one day how frequent you're eating
like as in in a minute fasting is it one
meal two meals and anything else that
you're drinking or supplements and go
ahead and add your height weight in age
and any major body problems that you're
having and what I'm going to do is I'm
going to analyze that to see what you're
doing correct and what you need to
improve alright so go ahead and click
the link
below upload your information and again
I can't promise that I'm going to pick
you but I'm going to pick several people
and I'll do the evaluations and I'll
post these as YouTube videos all right
talk to you later
