you will never consume regular sugar
again and when I'm talking about regular
sugar I'm talking about the sugar and
stuff like this or this stuff right here
a really important question to know is
why does consuming sugar always cause
you to be tired weak irritable or
grouchy brain fog which includes lack of
focus concentration a person is also
hungry if they either skip a meal or go
too long without eating and of course
they will have cravings especially to
you guessed it sugar all of these
symptoms are symptoms of low blood sugar
why is it that when you eat a lot of
sugar you have symptoms of low blood
sugar it's just it's strange isn't it
well take a look at this right here we
have all this sugar in the blood okay
after you ate a lot of sugar normal
sugar is really one teaspoon of sugar in
all of your blood I mean this is kind of
weird because an average person consumes
a lot more than than one teaspoon of
sugar an average person in America
consumes 75 teaspoons of sugar every
single day if you include all the other
stuff that turns into sugar very quickly
like flour bread pasta starches so in
spite of eating so much sugar a person
ends up with low blood sugar and they
will end up with low sugar inside your
cells there is a very tight control over
sugar your blood does not want high
sugar at all all it will remove it
because it considers sugar as something
very toxic now remember there's a very
tight controlled mechanism in the blood
very similar to your your temperature
which is 98.6 inside the body the core
temperature but the blood sugars should
be roughly around 80 you eat sugar it
spikes up and the body goes okay that's
too much so it starts bringing it down
what causes it to go down is a control
hormone called insulin
insulin reduces blood sugar by getting
sugar out of the blood and also puts it
into the cells okay if you keep eating
more and more sugar right the body's
going to compensate and start to protect
itself and start to
block these
receptors
for this guy right here insulin now the
sugar doesn't get in okay now you have a
little thermostat inside your cells that
measures how much sugar that's in there
and it's going to detect low sugar so
what happens over time is this insulin
raises higher and higher and higher
remember insulin pushes your blood sugar
down this is why you start getting lower
and lower blood sugars because insulin
is so high it's pushing your sugars way
below normal to the point where now you
have low blood sugar but not only that
you're at the same time developing more
resistance to insulin to the point where
your fuel becomes less less less inside
your cells now what's really happening
with the pancreas producing so much
insulin it's compensating for these
barriers right here it's your cells are
blocked and so between 15 and 20 years
of doing this what's going to happen
next is this whole
compensation protection mechanism is
going to break down to the point where
it's not going to work anymore they
can't produce any more insulin so at
first the insulin goes super high which
by the way the doctors never test
insulin they always check the blood
sugars if they did they would find it to
be super high but then over time it
starts going down down down down now
what's going to happen if you keep
eating 75 teaspoons of sugar and you
don't have the insulin to push it down
well well the blood sugar keeps going
higher and higher and higher this is
what is called diabetes okay high blood
sugar and then the nerves especially in
the bottom of the feet and even the
hands start to break down to the point
where you get numbness and tingling in
the bottom of the feet and eventually
the tissues die off to the point where
you get gang grein because the
circulation is bad they have to start
chopping off the toes and the legs
amputation but other than that you're
going to be perfectly fine I know this
might surprise you but some
people um might have a difficult time
getting off sugar cold turkey and
there's also some people that can get
off sugar but they occasionally want to
go back on sugar for various reasons
because there's two types of sugar that
they need to kind of know the difference
between you have Ultra processed sugars
right here and then you have higher
quality whole sugars right here these
sugars are all in stuff like this okay
and I want to explain the problem with
those type of sugars because there's a
huge problem but there's actually a very
simple solution okay we're talking about
stuff like glucose so when you look in
the back of the label it'll say glucose
might say dextrose which is a chemical
name for glucose or it might say corn
syrup or glucose syrup pretty much the
same thing or you might see high
fructose corn syrup or even sometimes
you might see aaba syrup or even just
regular sugar right if you just look at
the difference between white and brown
sugar there's not too much difference
and then they refine it and take out all
this other stuff other than just the
sugar you get something called molasses
and brown sugar is just a little bit of
that molasses added back in but not too
much and then you also get things like
rice syrup all of these are heavily
processed and when I mean processed I'm
talking about they remove things from
them what do they remove the nutrients
be vitamins minerals trace minerals
phytonutrients antioxidants in order for
you to take actual sugar and turn it
into energy it requires nutrients
nutrients are like the spark plugs that
allow it to ignite and be utilized and I
really want you to get to this next part
if there's fiber like in fruit for
example that will lower the blood sugar
Spike that happens when you eat that
food these three things right here
lessen the bad effects of sugar without
certain nutrients you cannot use this
glucose so what happens when you consume
this process glucose like these things
right here without the nutrients well
there's only one choice is to pull from
your reserves okay if you have any pull
from other tissues you're going to rob
Peter to pay Paul and the body's hoping
you'll actually add more nutrients in
there but of course if you keep
consuming this over time you're going to
deplete all the nutrients which are
needed to process
this sugar and then the machine inside
your body will not work anymore this is
why people get tired okay their body
just cannot produce energy even if they
consume sugar they're just like
completely exhausted all the time
because their machine is broken fiber
lessens that blood sugar Spike nutrients
allow you to turn the sugar into actual
fuel as energy and phytonutrients SL
antioxidants help protect against all
the damage that Sugar creates on your
cells when you eat sweet things you're
you're putting a tremendous amount of
energy through this machine and with
that comes a lot of byproducts like for
example if you consume raw honey raw
honey has like 181 different chemicals
to allow you to uh metabolize that sugar
and protect the machine from all the
fuel that's pumping through this machine
maple syrup it takes a tremendous amount
of uh sap from trees to make just a
little bit of maple syrup same thing it
has a lot of phytonutrients it has
nutrients and then turbinado sugar is
less refined it's kind of like sugar
cane but not broken down all the way
down to even brown sugar or even white
sugar but if we take molasses molasses
is super concentrated vitamins minerals
antioxidants so when you consume this
this is going to be very protective
against a lot of complications that
happen with sugar then we get something
like coconut sugar which basically has a
little bit of fiber and it has
phytonutrients and nutrients then we
have palm sugar which comes from a
different plant date Sugar as well all
of these are less processed than these
when you consume these right here they
are sucking nutrients out of your tissue
so they leave you in a defici state
before uh I was married we went to um
look around town for wedding cakes and
then we go to an Italian restaurant and
we spent a long time there to the point
where we looked around and everyone was
gone except us and they were closing and
and this person was delivering this uh
cart with all these these little uh
cakes and as he passed their table he
asked um listen we're going to shoot
these out do you want to sample any of
these and of course we sampled
everything okay that day I've never
consumed more sugar in my life okay we
drive home go to bed and my pulse in my
ear is pounding Bam Bam Bam Bam like
what is going on my heart is racing what
happened was all that Sugar sucked all
this potassium out of my blood with the
sugar to be stored in my liver because
that's what happens and when you're low
on potassium your heart rate goes up and
you hear that pounding in the inner ear
and when you consume these you also do
not get the protection from the phyto
whoops
nutrients okay these are antioxidants
there's no antioxidants in these at all
now if you do have low blood sugars the
best thing to do is not consume any in
Sugar people that have hypoglycemia low
blood sugar people tell them that they
should have sugar right to to keep their
sugar high I think a much better plan
would be to consume
protein instead of sugar because protein
can increase your blood sugar and you're
going to feel much much better if you
consume protein and not the sugar but
let's say for example you are really
addicted to sugars you can't come off
very easily it's going to take some time
and you want a good substitute boom
right here all of these these at least
will protect you against a lot of the
problems that all of these create now I
want to get into a couple things related
to high fructose corn syrup and aava
syrup okay when we're looking at really
all of these sugars right here glucose
obviously just has glucose and corn
syrup is just glucose and glucose syrup
is just glucose but High frus corn syrup
is a combination of a little bit more
fructose the glucose and agava syrup is
like the worst amount of fructose it's
80% now when we get into whiter brown
sugar we're dealing with like a 50/50
split glucose and fructose and the same
thing with rice syrup now here's the
thing you need to know
fructose only gets metabolized by the
liver whereas glucose can be processed
by the entire body so when you consume a
lot of fructose you are forcing that
type of sugar to be dealt with just by
the liver and this is why high fructose
corn syrup creates a lot of uh fat on
the liver it can then lead to type two
diabetes it also creates high blood
pressure and also obesity if we look at
high fructose corn syrup and aava syrup
aava is like 80% of this fructose so a
Gava is actually probably a little worse
than hose corn syrup but people don't
talk about it in reality people don't
normally consume large amounts of agava
syrup they do consume very large amounts
of high fructose corn syrup now when you
eat fruit you have fructose and it does
go through the liver but you also have
the nutrients you have the fiber you
have the antioxidants to protect you so
you're not going to get any of these
things if you're getting your sugar from
fruits and that would be a lot better
than any type of sugar because you're
eating something kind of sweet berries I
think would be the best thing if you
could do that uh just because it's the
lowest amount of sugar it has a lot of
fiber but what I'm trying to explain is
not all sugars equal each other there
are sugars that are really bad for you
okay and then there are sugars in fruit
that if you don't have insulin
resistance or you're younger with a very
fast metabolism or you fixed your
metabolic rate you could probably get
away with these without a problem but I
will tell you right now with an average
person that is let's say middle-aged and
they be consuming a lot of sugar for a
long time even fruit might slow them
down now that you know a lot more about
sugar if you have not seen this very
popular video about trigger check it out
I put it right here
