hey guys in this video I wanted to talk
about something called rdas which are
the nutrient requirements that we need
okay so a lot of people have heard about
them and they don't know about them what
that means but I wanted to bring up your
awareness on the fact that an RDA is
really a minimum requirement a bare
minimum requirement to prevent a
deficiency disease okay so you have
scurvy which is the vitamin C deficiency
it's a classic vitamin C deficiency it's
called you have beriberi which is a b1
deficiency pellagra which is another B
vitamin deficiency so these are diseases
so number one it's very hard to know if
you're getting your requirements okay so
you're gonna you're not gonna take your
app out and everything you eat and track
it and saying oh yeah I'm getting enough
vitamin A and vitamin B and things like
that and number two another thing that
we'll another couple of variables that
can interfere with this is that let's
say your body is under a massive stress
or you have an infection or we have an
injury or you're getting up an age or
you have poor digestion all of these
factors can then increase the need for
nutrients now I put a link down below of
a document that you can download that
basically lists all the nutrients and
the top foods that you would have to
focus on to get those nutrients and I
recommend that you just scan the list of
course you don't have to memorize it but
just look at it and just make sure
you're consuming more of those foods
because you have nutrient-dense foods
and then you have other foods that are
not that nutrient-dense but they're
still good to consume so let's just talk
about the nutrient-dense foods we have
cruciferous wild-caught fish is very
nutrient dense pasture-raised eggs
grass-fed animal products and the
cheeses sprouts which have a high
concentration of something called sulfur
fame which is a great final nutrient
that can help you organ meats it's
actually at the top of the list it has
like the most concentrated nutrients
it's incredible seafood like you have
oysters and you have shrimp things like
that are very nutrient dense okay
versus cucumbers eggplant squash iceberg
lettuce onion you know you could eat
these but just realize that these are
not as dense so in the download below
you can click it I listed all the real
key foods that you should focus on and
one less point about the version of
ketosis that I recommend I'm always
going to recommend 7 to 10 cups of
vegetables not just for the potassium
requirements but for all these other
nutrients in the vegetables that you're
going to get because if you actually
consume 7 to 10 cups you're going to get
plenty of these other nutrients and
you're not going to have to worry about
some day getting some type of deficiency
but I believe a lot of people have
subclinical vitamin and mineral
deficiencies that aren't going to
necessarily show up in a blood test
because the real problem is in the
tissues I mean even when you go into
ketosis and you're converting from sugar
burning the fat burning if you're
deficient in potassium or B vitamins you
are going to experience side effects the
T key to fatigue in keto rash things
like that so go ahead and download this
document check it out and see if it can
help you
if you're enjoying this information and
getting something out of it please give
me an unbiased Google review I put a
link down below thanks
