hi guys in this video we're going to
show you how to fix ankle pain okay so
many people spraying their ankle or they
have pain and now unless it's broke um
then you would have to go get it casted
or fixed uh if it's not broke then you
can do this technique and it's very very
effective so let me show you how to fix
ankle pain check this out okay so here's
what you want to do if the person hurts
on the right ankle you work on the left
calf in the front part of the muscle
this called the anterior tibialis so
you're going to work on the opposite
side always
if the person has pain in the ankle on
the left side you work on the right side
so always work on the opp side do not
work on the same side and what you're
going to do is you're going to first
thing you're do is take the calf and
strip it down you're going to massage
the calf muscle on the back part all the
way down to the bottom part of the
Achilles tendon and you're going to just
work up and down and work all that out
and you're gonna have the person move
this ankle and it's like oh my gosh the
Pain's going away right so you're going
to work the back part but because the
dynamic of the joint usually doesn't
affect when muscle you want to work on
the front part of the muscle too so
you're going to work on this muscle it's
not right in the center it's off to the
side slightly it's this muscle right
through in here you're going to work on
this and what I mean by work on it is
massage this muscle it's called the
anterior tibialis all the way down to
the ankle and you're going to just work
that up Up and
Down for maybe about a minute or two and
then the calf as well and then you're
going to ask the person how's that feel
and it's going to be probably 50% better
and then you're going to say good let me
do it again and you're going to work up
a little bit deeper and find the knots
on the opposite side but here's a little
trick um what you want to do is you want
to ask the person as you go down to tell
me where the most tender spot is and
she'll probably go right about there
right so then you're going to work on
that side because the spots that are the
most tender are the are the points that
are compensating the most that need to
be worked out because when you damage
that side this side compensates so
you're removing all the tension the
muscle spasm and you're going to
basically get a lot of relief if you're
by yourself you might want to use either
this tool or another tool to rub down on
the front part and push on the back part
uh because it's sometimes it's hard to
use your own thumbs you can strip it
down until right up until the the bottom
part of the kiles tendon down here into
the ankle come right up through in here
and watch how fast that pain goes away
it's that simple so opposite side front
and back that's all you need to do put
your comments
below press the Subscribe
button press just press this button
right here subscribe okay that one right
there just do it right now what's the
next part what am I going to say
and where am I going with this press the
Subscribe
button forgot the last part press the
Subscribe button and I will keep you
updated on the future events
