there's one really important nutrient
deficiency involved in Lyme disease that
you absolutely need to know about and
you can do all these regular
conventional treatments and even
alternative treatments but without this
one nutrient you're going to have a hard
time recovering 100% And I'm going to
show you a simple solution that you can
do to overcome this the nutrient
deficiency in Lime is vitamin D now the
big question is why well that's because
this Spyro in Lyme disease this very
specific microbe has a very sneaky trick
of blocking your ability to receive
vitamin D in other words you can have
normal vitamin D levels in your blood
and be severely deficient of vitamin D
deep in your tissues the way vitamin D
actually works typically from sun the
Sun hits your skin that then goes
through several changes within your
liver in your kidneys to eventually turn
into the active form of vitamin D but it
then has to be received by the vitamin D
receptor which is deep inside your cells
in the nucleus of the cell but the
unique thing with this microorganism in
line and what it does to your vitamin D
receptor is it downgrades that receptor
by 50 to 80 x the ability of your immune
system to fight back is pretty much
nullified so all all these remedies and
antibiotics are going to try to kill it
but your immune system is still weakened
now I'm going to show you how to fix
this problem but I really want you to
understand why so many people with lime
are suffering for years and years and
years unnecessarily other microbes also
do the same thing especially viruses
like epin bar virus and even certain
types of cancer also downgrade the
receptor for vitamin D this is their
dirty little trick to overcome the
defenses of your own immune system it's
basically like being in this battle
between you and another Army and having
the ability to remove the weapons on the
other side you know the problem is
there's no routine blood test that
you're going to be able to test this
vitamin D receptor problem you really
can't go by what's in the blood you have
to do a specialized vitamin D receptor
test and I will put that link down below
if you want a couple options so here you
are you're at the doctor you get a lime
test becomes positive you check your
vitamin D it's normal but it's not
really normal deep inside I mean just
think about how many other conditions
are related to a vitamin D deficiency
autoimmune diseases cardiovascular
diseases certain cognitive problems so
there estimations up to 30% of the
entire population has a problem with
this vitamin D receptor but a huge
portion of people that are overweight
have resistance to vitamin D at the
receptor level other microorganisms also
have this nasty trick like chlamidia
microplasmas so basically there's this
hijacking occurring at your vitamin D
receptor and it basically usually gets
unnoticed because it's not on a routine
blood test toxic mold
asilis also can downgrade this vitamin D
receptor when you get a blood test for
vitamin D usually they test the inactive
version for various reasons I'm not
going to get into but if you ever check
your active version of vitamin D
sometimes that's actually even higher
just because the compensation of what
your body is trying to do to push
through and override this vitamin D
receptor resistance and so if you ever
get that blood test done and the doctor
sees that your blood vitamin D levels
are high what are they going to tell you
make sure you don't take vitamin D so
wherever you are in the stage of this
lime disease vitamin D is going to be
really important to turn this thing
around but how are we going to override
this resistance to vitamin D well I'm
going to give you a bunch of things to
do because the darker your skin is the
more vitamin D you're going to need and
the less vitamin D you're going to get
from the Sun the older they are the less
absorption of vitamin D you can have the
lower your cholesterol is or let's say
for example you have liver problems or
kidney problems or let's say you had
your gallbladder removed or you're on a
Statin all of these are additional
barriers to vitamin D so you need need
certain things like zinc magnesium to
allow vitamin D to work if you're also
consuming seed oils that can block your
absorption for vitamin D and of course
if you're a smoker that could also be an
issue how do we increase vitamin D well
number one you start taking large
amounts of vitamin D but I wouldn't take
it every day if we want to get more
penetration to override this resistance
you want to take a lot of vitamin D like
50,000 and I use sporadically maybe once
a week now of course being out in the
sun's going to help omega-3 fatty acids
are also important resveratol is another
thing you can take to help increase the
receptiveness of the vitamin D receptor
intense exercise will also help the
phytonutrient cortin can help as well
and zinc and Boron and even progesterone
and sulfurane are all compounds that
help help override this problem but
there's one more thing you can do that
actually can help you uh TKA is a type
of B salt that also activates the
vitamin D receptor I did some research
on this and I was looking at all the
alternative ways to kind of allow that
vitamin D receptor to work better and
bio salts came up which is fascinating
now you know one of the most important
nutrients involved in Lime that could
potentially take your problem that you
have right now and put them right
straight into remission now there's more
to learn about your immune system if you
have not seen this video check it out I
put it up right
here
