hi guys Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about the highest vitamin
C Food on the planet can you guess what
it
is I'm going to wait until you type down
and I'll wait for your answer right I'm
just kidding I'm going to tell you right
now now it's not lemons it's not bell
peppers it's not
mangoes
sauerkraut do you realize that
cabbage a cup of
cabbage has only 30 mg which is not bad
of vitamin C but when you ferment it
into
sauerkraut it has 700 Mig per per cup
this stuff is
gold a bell pepper which is high in
vitamin C this one right here has 90
migs of vitamin C okay the RDA for
vitamin C is 90 Mig per day so you could
do one of these and get all your vitamin
C or you can do a cup of sauerkraut and
get enough for the whole week it's
incredible two lemons equal about 90 Mig
so you can do that lemon juice you'd
have to consume about about five or six
ounces of lemon juice to get all your
vitamin C because a lot of the vitamin C
is in the outer portion not necessarily
just the juice the other cool thing
about sauerkraut is 4 to 6 oun contain
over a trillion B bacteria it's the most
powerful probiotic like for example if
you had 16 o of sauerkraut that would be
equivalent to eight bottles of
probiotics of 100 pills each so it has
incredible immune building properties I
highly recommend get some sauerkraut
start including it in your diet all
right thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will will
keep you updated
