hey guys today I'm back with another
video on the number one hidden source of
your stress you ready for this the news
TV radio web magazines I want to define
a word sensationalism what does that
mean the use of shocking stories at the
expense of accuracy to provoke interest
I want you to do this one experiment
just get the newspaper okay
and try to find some good news when
we're constantly reminded of bad news
over and over and over war is eminent
the threat of war terrorism crime drug
scandal threat of an epidemic
unfortunately good news does not sell
newspapers so let's just kind of go
through the newspaper and see if there's
any positive news here all right
technical snags fuel chaos trial of
promising HIV vaccine fails to women
killed child hurt in college dorm a
Russian to us define housing for
quarantine passengers China accuses us
of spreading fear failing to offer aid
after divorce from the UK Britain maps
out the future Hong Kong was this
closing China border escalating strike
Chinese markets oil prices plunge over
coronavirus fears okay here's another
one as hard sell sir sales grow alcohol
Giants invest in alternative drink
markets well that's not good
airstrikes escalate violence between
Turkey in Syria now I know someone's
gonna disagree and say dr. Berg we need
to be informed right well yes we need to
be informed I have nothing against that
but not to be informed of the negativity
24/7 in your face everywhere you go at
the airport
there's the news you go get your hair
cut if the news is claimed recently I
was at the computer repair store had the
news in there playing 24/7 it's just too
much negativity and I'm not going to
even get into whether the news is
unbiased or not or if it's truthful or
not just the fact that this negativity
is put in your face 24/7 is not good for
your health
so I want you to do it
Behrman with yourself okay I want you to
limit the amount of bad news you expose
yourself to the amount of news that you
consume on a weekly basis and I want you
to refocus on some good news and I will
guarantee your health is going to
improve and also comment down below on
what you think about this topic
