hey guys I wanted to quickly just kind
of explain what this gallbladder formula
really is and how to use it in some
points about it the key thing about the
gallbladder is it contains several
factors that help the gallbladder
basically one is bile salts now what is
bile salts bile something that's made by
your body and what we have in here is
called purified bile salts so it's not
all that junk in toxins it's just
certain salts that act like detergents
that are natural for your body to help
dissolve certain things especially
grease or fats and the purpose of
breaking down fats is to extract the
nutrients from those healthy fats and
what's in fact that we need omega-3
fatty acids omega-6 fatty acids the
other Megas fatty acids there's there's
like other healthy fatty acids for your
brain DHA epa like all these different
and i'm not going to get into all the
different ones but there's a lot of
healthy things in fact that you need is
anti-inflammatories to help you with
your hormones you name it okay and if
you're worried about cholesterol this
actually reduces cholesterol because you
need the bile salts to actually break
down the cholesterol and then also this
will help you extract more vitamin A for
the eyes for the skin for the immune
system all the fats I've added like by
even vitamin E for the heart for your
metabolism for oxygen to the heart it
helps you absorb vitamin D which is very
important vitamin K and vitamin k1 and
k2 which is good for calcium
transportation so it has a lot of
different effects so it's going to help
you with your bloating it's going to
help you with constipation if you have
that it's going to help take the
pressure off your liver so what happens
is to use the bile down here and the
liver is supposed to make it but a lot
of times over time and your diet hasn't
been maybe that great you start
depleting the bile but also if you have
heavy periods from minstrel cycles or
having pregnancies your bile goes right
down and
you don't have any if you're vegetarian
you're not going to have any if you're
in a low-fat diet you're not going to
have any so a lot of people just don't
have enough bile even when the stress
goes up that can shut down the bile so
taking a little bit of this is really
beneficial because it goes through your
liver and it helps you digest and it can
clear up a lot of things like even acne
as well so the goal is to give you
enough so you can start helping yourself
on your own and then over a period of
time you can wean off of it because you
might not need it and then you can just
can't take it as needed
some people take neither longer some
people need it shorter some people can
get by with a couple months some people
need six months but if you don't have a
gallbladder or you have a damaged liver
or a fatty liver you might need this for
you know a few years well if you don't
have a goal but you're going to need it
forever because you don't have enough
bile because you're just going to have
you're not going to have this little
sack down here the to hold the bile to
be able to squeeze squeeze it out into
the small intestine so all you're
getting is a couple drops that just
trickle down there and I think doctors
downplay the importance of the
gallbladder you need that gallbladder so
so this is this is a product that we
would use it has also this is the new
extra-strength one which has pancreatic
enzymes because the pancreas and the
gallbladder work together to break down
those fats too now when I put that in
there it really gives the person a
complete picture from the pancreas
producing the lip ASIS and the
gallbladder producing the bile to really
get that digestion to a full level at
this level and then it comes down as
full absorption of nutrients because the
goal is to get the nutrients being
absorbed also in here I have betaine
hydrochloride which is actually
something to acidify the stomach to help
you digest the stomach level so it
really hits the stomach the gallbladder
and the pancreas all at the same time
but with emphasis on the gallbladder so
it's a pretty powerful thing one way
that you know you have a gallbladder
problem is you have right shoulder pain
or next step right here or even
headaches because there's a nerve that
goes right up through here there's other
things in here too like stone Roop if
the stone root if there's a
a gallstone there's Spanish black radish
to help lubricate the duck
there's slippery elm bark to help
lubricate this area right here and a few
other ingredients like an enzyme for the
stomach so this is a really common thing
that I use to solve a lot of problems
now
a couple things if it's a kind of a
moderate to severe problem we recommend
take one beef right before you eat okay
with each meal if it's a real mild issue
just take one with breakfast and you can
always increase it so you have the
flexibility of just testing it out now
here's some a couple points about this
if you have low stomach acids and you
take this you might feel more bloated
because gallbladder this stuff is
alkaline even though I have some soda
Pfizer acidifies if instead of fires in
here this is an alkaline substance so if
you have a alkaline stomach and you take
this it might kind of neutralize the
acids even more so if that happens it
doesn't mean that this is creating a
problem it just all that do does is it
makes make sure it indicates that wow
you need to start increasing more acid
and your stomach and then this will
really even work better because normally
our stomachs are about like between one
and three very very very acidic and when
I starts going up to four or five it's
going away from acid now you don't even
release any bile so one of the causes of
low bile production is low stomach acids
and that's a common problem so what I do
is I just I take this but I a bit ain't
hydrochloride you can get it from the
health of store betaine hydrochloride
and take two or maybe even three with a
meal so you take and take those right
away and then you want to take this
after the meal okay so if you have that
problem you just basically switch it
around a little bit add the betaine and
my guitar teacher found that if he had
nine betaine hydrochloride he can eat
anything you want and it really digest I
don't recommend that but the point is
that you probably need a lot of acid at
four
but because we're not giving you a drug
it works a little bit slower okay
so how long does it take to work it
takes about because it's not a drug it
might take a week or even a little bit
longer to start to kick in but you
should start feeling a lot better with
this right here let's see what else I
think that answers most the questions
that people have about this product if
there's any other questions you can go
ahead and email us but that will kind of
give you the rundown on the specifics of
gall bladder formula
