hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about low salt and insulin resistance
okay I don't know if you realize this
but we need salt in our diet it's a
requirement there are certain rdas for
sodium which by the way salt is composed
of sodium and chloride so if you take
salt you have 40% sodium and 60%
chloride so in other words you need if
we talk about sodium 2300 milligrams
every single day so you would have to
consume one teaspoon of salt to get
enough sodium to meet your requirements
okay so we need sodium people are so
freaked out about sodium like oh my gosh
it's gonna kill me bla bla bla it's
gonna cause high blood pressure but not
significantly but here's what you need
to know a low salt diet can worsen
insulin resistance a low potassium diet
can worsen insulin resistance and by the
way if your salt sensitive what that
really means is you potassium deficient
you don't need to lower your sodium you
need to increase your potassium which
will naturally bring the sodium down in
the right ratios because we need four
times as much potassium as we do sodium
alright but realize that when you're on
a ketogenic diet or you're in a minute
fasting you need at least one teaspoon
of salt to also improve insulin
resistance which will then help you
handle the insulin which is usually too
high creating the problem people with
high insulin typically get high blood
pressure so and then the doctor says we
need to reduce the sodium no you don't
you need to fix instant resistance and
take more potassium not lower your
sodium below the requirements that you
need because low salt will worsen
insulin resistance and keep your blood
pressure from going down and one more
thing always consume sea salt not table
salt thanks for watching you know I just
wanted to take a moment out to thank you
for your amazing feedback that you guys
are giving me it's just mind-blowing the
successes the winds I created a link
down below so you can actually type out
your full success story and if you have
a before and after with weight loss that
would be awesome and if you don't have a
success with weight but other things
just put an image of yourself and your
personal success story and I would love
to read it and also share it with others
so I want to just thank you in advance
for doing that but there's a link down
below fill it out I can't wait to read
it
