I want to share seven signs of a leaky
gut we're dealing with this gut wall and
what happens is we have this really thin
single layer of
cells that is the barrier between your
inside of your intestines versus the
outside where we have protection and
absorption of about 90% of all the
nutrients you have a mucus layer there
you have a lot of microbes you have 80%
of your immune system in that location
and when you have Lecky gut you have the
start of inflammation but let's take a
look at what the medical profession says
about having inflammation in your gut
okay dietary measures to improve this
inflammation in your gut you should
increase sble fiber intake now right off
the bat that's the absolute worst thing
to do if you have inflammation your gut
is to take more fiber in fact you want
to just take that inflammation and do
the opposite you want to go carnivore if
you have inflammation in the gut
especially if it's very very severe
because as you have more fiber you're
going to create more
inflammation all right I'm not done I
want to show you a couple other things
here if we look at the cause of this
problem the first thing it says while
the causes of inflammation are still
unknown It is believed that the entire
gut brain axis is affected they're
talking about the connection between
your gut and your brain and so it
doesn't really give us any more
information about causation but it does
talk about risk factors being older
prolonged fever
anxiety
depression genetics can be a problem
they're talking about alteration in the
gut microbiome okay I agreed with that
then they get into management not curing
it but let's manage it the number of
treatments have been found to be
effective increasing fiber no you don't
want to do that uh talk therapy
anti-spasmodic
medication and
anti-depressants okay so then they get
into physical activity you should
exercise then they talk about
medications then they're getting into
vagus nerve stimulation okay but you
know what's missing they're not talking
about changing the diet what you need to
know is that most diseases are triggered
by something that happens in your gut
and it has everything to do with the
food that you're eating it's not in
Wikipedia and so it's kind of missing
information and the problem is you don't
see it because it's missing and for the
average person doing research uh they
won't really connect the dots most of
the time now there's other things that
go beyond food or that are in food that
can create a problem like broad spectrum
antibiotics you start messing with your
gut microbiome and that's when you start
to really go downhill because you need
those microbes to help you digest you
don't need to piss them off and have
them change the relationship to be more
pathogenic and then you have also other
things in the food supply like an
herbicide called glyphosate in the GMO
food they actually patent it as an
antibiotic now if you look at glyphosate
they say well doesn't affect the human
body well yeah it affects bacteria that
are in your body and so you start
exposing yourself to too much glyphosate
and now that creates an antibiotic
effect and then you're told to consume
whole grains wow if you consume whole
grains while you have a leaky gut you
are going to allow materials that go
through that hole into your immune
system and it's going to create a huge
immune reaction you're start developing
allergies to all sorts of things that
maybe you didn't have before and not
just with whole grains but with other
Foods too like the
proteins if you give a small child milk
the proteins in that milk can cause
leaky gut because the child does not
have the ability to digest those
proteins early on at that age and so now
you actually create an irritation a hole
whole
bleeding and that's one of the causes of
anemia in small children that consume
this milk too early but of course breast
milk won't do it and then if we take a
look at the protein in grains gluten
gluten is one of the only proteins that
our bodies cannot digest and then I
think the last thing that really
destroys this gut lining is seed oils so
when you start to develop this leaky gut
we get this injury we get inflammation
like if you right now had a cut on your
finger and it was all red and it was
swollen you could see it you can protect
it you could put a bandit on it but if
that's happening inside your colon you
can't see it how do you know it's
inflamed I'm about to give you the
symptoms to let you know number one of
course you're going to have abdominal
pain or cramping in any part
of the lower abdomen I lived with that
for decades and I just kind of pushed
through I thought it was normal you
should never have pain cramping or any
type of bloating in your digestive
system that means there's some type of
inflammation going on that's number one
number two constipation or diarrhea
number three you're going to be fatigued
because you're not digesting and because
food's not getting the full digestion
you're going to lack energy then number
four you're going to feel brain fog so
it's going to start to affect not just
fatigue but Clarity number five it's
going to affect your mood you're going
to have anxiety and it's actually
related to your digestion number six
skin inflammation whatever is going on
your skin is a really good indication of
your digestion and being a practice for
30 years I will tell you these people
that came in with skin problems you just
fix the gut and their skin problems go
away if someone has really good skin you
know their digestion is good and last
one number seven autoimmune diseases 80%
of your immune system is in the gut and
when you invade the immune system and
you bypass it and you bypass normal
immigration and it no longer gets the
stamp of approval it gets into the body
and body starts developing antibodies
against your own tissues and it can be
in any tissue and now what happens is
you start getting inflamation in that
area because we have this constant
attack your body now considers certain
normal
tissues foreign or a pathogen and so if
it identifies the thyroid as being The
Invader it'll start creating
inflammation on your thyroid gland as a
condition called Hashimoto and that
origin ated in the gut and it started
with inflammation and leaky gut one of
the best things you can do for any type
of gut
inflammation is eliminate a lot of the
things that are creating inflammation
and this is where I would recommend the
carnivore diet for a couple months to
start to heal the gut by eliminating all
the things that are creating
inflammation in parallel with that I
would recommend taking something called
glutamine and glyc SE two things that
can actually heal it and if you're on
the carnivore diet you're consuming a
lot of red meat and things like that
which are loaded with glutamine and so
that can help you right there but
there's a little bit more information
you need to know about this topic and
for that check out this video right here
