so a lot of the times when you're trying
to lose weight on a special eating plan
you can have deficiencies that occur due
to uh rapid weight uh loss because some
of that could be water loss and with
that becomes electrolytes so I want to
kind of tell you uh the four main
electrolyte symptoms that you could have
and we're going to debug it okay and
rather than tell you the symptoms I'm
going to tell you the four elements and
then the symptoms that could be created
and some of these overlap so you just
need to understand them if the person
has low calcium they will typically get
cramps in their calves uh legs and feet
they will also get um irritable right so
they can be irritable and get twitching
they call that tetany where you're
getting a little twitching like that um
chronic cough that's a Calcium
deficiency and even depression and
sleeping problems but realize that it
could also uh not necessarily be a of
calcium it could be that your pH your
alkaline acid levels are off too because
if the body is more alkaline from
drinking more alkaline water or having
digestive problems or acid reflux or all
those things that which create an
alkaline body or adrenal issues which
create an alkaline body you can't absorb
the calcium the calcium plugs everything
up and show it's low uh in the tissue
but it's high stuck around the joints in
the arter so um that's that's just kind
of the deeper um reason why you couldn't
absorb calcium but also if your your
gallbladder your digestion is not right
uh or constipation you can't pull in the
calcium calcium is transported with the
fat C of vitamins vitamin D3 and K2 so
that could be another reason why the
calcium is low and that would explain
why people take the calcium don't feel
any better okay number two low magnesium
weak muscle so you feel weaker heavier
when you're walking hyper IR ability
irregular heartbeat a heart your heart
pal Pates heart pal Pates so a lot of
times when you take calcium it's
automatically coming with magnesium like
a Cal Mag or calcium magnesium
supplement that's totally fine just make
sure that you never take calcium
carbonate that's bad so that's magnesium
which could also affect your sleep low
potassium potassium fatigue brain fog
like tired in the head so here you start
the the weight loss program and you get
tired in your head well you need
potassium where does it come from huge
amounts of salads that you're probably
not eating not bananas bananas don't
have enough potassium cramping that
could also be in the calf or in the feet
constipation if you're actually doing an
eating plan and then you basically start
getting constipated then you would
better add potassium feeling nauseated
sugar Cravings those are all symptoms of
a potassium deficiency um low sodium
well let me come back to this potassium
if you go to the doctor and get your
potassium checked and it shows normal
that doesn't really mean anything 98% of
all your potassium is inside the cell
not in the blood so you would have to
deplete a lot of potassium for it to
show up in the blood so you can't always
go by Blood low sodium when the sodium
is what people are afraid of and they're
worried about and avoiding in salt but
if you're low in sodium you will get
headaches fatigue appetite loss nausea
fuzzy thinking so it's not a bad thing
to take more sodium if you have those
things so I found too it could be brain
fog or or fuzziness in the head or
tiredness in the head so if some of
these cross over then go ahead and take
all of them but I like to you can take
these as a supplement but also you can
take more vegetables sea salt and this
basically these magnesium is in the
leafy greens and calcium is in the dairy
like the cheese these um type products
okay so hope that helps but that's the
debug for the electrolytes
