so it's stress making you eat sugar it's
not real hard for me to understand why
people who are stressed consume sugar
okay so here's what happens
stress reduces a body chemical called
beta endorphins now what is that baited
orphans are those things that make you
feel good
baited orphans basically counter stress
and pain they're about 33% stronger than
morphine okay for pain so in your body
actually makes these body chemicals and
you can trigger beta endorphins through
exercise like that runner's high through
doing in a minute fasting or fasting you
start feeling euphoric by consuming
sugar by laughing getting massaged and
consuming chocolate okay so what happens
it's kind of a trap because here you are
you feel stress you eat sugar it gives
you more confidence you feel more
connected you feel top of the world
hopeful for about five minutes maybe for
lucky 20 minutes then you basically
start feeling stressed and in pain again
right which forces you to eat more sugar
and this is the trap that people are in
there this vicious cycle this habit so
I'm just making you very aware of what's
really happening it's actually causing a
depletion of beta
endorphins with a real temporary little
bit of pleasure and relief of discomfort
when you eat sugar okay why don't you
try this start exercising do in a minute
fasting cut down the sugar do healthy
Kido laugh more get a massage eat sugar
free chocolate so just make sure that
why you're getting massage don't start
laughing while you're eating chocolate
at the same time because that could be
very hazardous thanks for watching
so I want to know about what you think
about this video so please comment below
and tell me what you think
