so welcome everyone we have another uh
great before and after hey Chris
pleasure to see you um calling straight
from India right right right and let me
first tell you it's an absolute pleasure
actually with you at least Skype um I
you wouldn't believe what I've been
through I mean I've actually right a lot
of uh diet plans a lot of exercises a
lot of different types of workouts
nothing actually work for me
uh it was uh until I think uh 11 months
from now I was actually uh at my Peak uh
about 11 months from uh dry up so I was
at like about 282 lb 282 lb yeah wow
yeah and uh I was U actually diagnosed
for uh high blood pressure MH and uh my
LDL was through the roof uh my
triglycerides was through the roof I was
actually admitted in hospit I was put on
a a bunch of medication and uh the
doctors actually gave me U you know a a
lot of medication I actually uh take
more medication than my parents put
together uh and they in their 60s uh so
um I was under a high like real strong
dosage of medication and then diabetes
medic diabetes
medication uh not diabetes uh I was
actually for cholesterol uh and high
blood pressure so uh my blood pressure
was about
170 100 that was the highest recorded
blood pressure when I was admitted in
the hospital and the doctors put me on
some uh you know
uh sort of carbohydrates uh diet and
some things that I actually didn't like
like uh ask me to eat a lot of uh
cucumber and you know it actually didn't
sound like I was eating much and uh I
was actually literally fed up with the
food I was eating it was it was really
pathetic um two months into uh you know
all of the medication and the diet the
doctor actually gave me I I went online
and I started uh you know looking at
what causes uh blood pressure because
the best part is they they actually
couldn't even diagnose what caused my my
BB to shoot up U it could be you know
the extra weight that I have um so um
after that I actually uh somehow uh
found your video
and uh I started uh you know listening
to literally 90% of them I've actually
covered 90% of all videos
impressive uh right from when when uh
you've actually started off small scale
right up to now I have the video
notification so anytime you upload a new
video I get to watch that so um I'm
actually currently uh down at
193b wow I've lost 88b
wow yeah well
done
so uh no biscuits crackers passes
pancakes waffles Le the way you say it
so all of that uh i' I've actually got
down on out of that uh I initially used
to go three
meals uh and I was actually when I was
in hospital I was on a s of a six meal
uh diet plan uh it like it was always
eating and then that U actually read
about uh insulin resistance and how that
actually would uh help so I I started
off with three so we'll have U you know
a breakfast a lunch and a dinner and
then um then I actually U you know on
some of the videos you said uh if you're
not hungry just don't eat I mean uh when
I get up in the morning I actually get
up late because I work like late shifts
uh I work from 1 to 10: in the night so
I work kind of new shifts so uh I get up
in the morning and uh I'm I'm actually
not hungry that so uh what I do is uh
I've also seen all of your uh exercise
suggestions so I I I I do those uh you
know these high intensity uh long
interval uh workouts so I have those in
place and uh and and after that I'm I'm
a hungry say about 11-ish about 11 uh
and that's when I have my first meal and
that meals like U loads of uh you know
fats healthy fats uh like aronds
something with some some sort of fish
right with coconut oil eggs you know
something that's actually loaded with u
you know fat and um these seven cups of
vegetables of course let's not forget
that uh so my my Mom Mom's actually uh
you know she makes me this huge salad uh
with uh apple cider vinegar uh that's
also supposed to be very good uh as we
mentioned in quite a bit of the dets so
the apple cider vinegar is is I also use
is like salad dressing salt so it gives
that very tiny taste and we Indians we
know we love our spices so add a little
uh Spice in there and then uh so so that
and I have uh Dairy as well so just just
Cur that as well keeps me going until
the next meal so and and then I have my
uh the next meal I'm actually not hungry
I'm like literally uh full okay and then
I have my meal at say about 7 7:30 I
have something light in the night uh and
and then uh once I'm done with work I'm
back home I I do a little uh you know
sort of breathing exercise I take a
little uh walk um so I actually didn't
start this way I mean uh it took me some
time to get adapted to uh this style
that you explained in your videos I I
was actually too heavy I mean 282 I
couldn't I couldn't run I couldn't do uh
any uh sort of uh you know strenuous
work you know the videos where you jump
on these Vlogs I actually literally had
to do uh ground level walking first and
after ground level walking I felt a
little confident about going for a a
little sort of 20 second job and then
you know walk again so and then after
that I was able to um 3 months down the
line I was able to actually Sprint for
about 10 seconds so wow gradually so you
just kind of went just gradually
gradually not to push it too much hey
question about um people in
India the food there I know it's really
high in carbohydrates right yeah like
have you ever been to
America yes I have I've been to Belfast
man I've been to Boston uh New York and
New York when you're when you're in
America and you go you probably have
visited an Indian restaurant right Y is
it the same food as in India no it's
not really what's different yeah uh I
mean The Taste the spices that be is uh
it's it's entirely different I mean it
when it's cooked in India you should
taste it I mean I'm inviting you over
please do come when you come please come
home with the right place uh we'll treat
you with some real good Indian food and
uh uh uh yeah uh actually we have a lot
of sweets U I actually cut down on
sweets uh refined sugar no I was
actually uh little bit addicted to
alcohol I mean I used to drink over the
weekends like say Saturdays and Sundays
was when like out with friends um alone
time to myself so I used to uh you know
drink quite a bit uh so I cut that out
uh so so that's also helped uh you know
in the weight loss as well apart from uh
the other diet in place and the gradual
increase in uh the intensity of the
exercises that I that I've done so all
of this actually combined together and
it's it's it's like it's something that
I can actually do all my life it's not
something that I'm going to you know uh
just stop with uh I I just want to you
know continue this lifestyle it's it's
it's not a diet it's not a diet it's
it's it's a lifestyle change that's what
I actually tell people everyone keep
asking I mean you're losing so much of
weight uh it's just been about 2 months
or 3 months or four months if you've
seen you and you've lost so much of
weight wait what's the secret what diet
are you want it's not a diet it's a
lifestyle change that's what I tell
everyone so um I'm actually now uh
referring a lot of people uh to watch
your videos uh I've actually created a
Facebook page as well it's called Uh
reverse unhealthy lifestyle where I
share all of your videos and and and and
uh trying to help the people who are
actually uh you know in the dark in
terms of understanding how your body
actually functions and and what you
actually need to give your body for it
to function the way it should
hell my hair even started growing better
wow this diet I mean yeah even I get
compliments about my hair as well so my
hair started growing better so overall
this this last uh you know 11 months uh
at least the first half of of it uh me
trying and you know striving to achieve
it and and this the last actually the
last six months was pretty easy for me I
mean I like the food that I eat uh
initially I got some push back from my
parents you're not eating enough of rice
because you know the stable in South
India is the rice so um I I actually got
a lot of uh you know feedback from my
parents and you know other people as
well you're not eating enough to
actually go uh without uh you know a
meal or something like that overdoing
your part is what they usually tell me
but then I actually tell them I'm not
hungry I I eat when I'm hungry and and
the meal that I eat it's it's actually
supposed to to have all of the nutrients
in it it's actually so I get my cars
from the veget I get my fats from eggs I
got I've got chicken I've got uh you
know fish so I get my fats there and
proteins from there as well so uh the
vitamins and minerals uh we we get it
from the vegetables itself so it's it's
it's a power meal that I have in the
afternoon that has all of the nutrients
that my body requires to function to to
give to the cells uh you know for its
growth so in in in India um it's very
like socially uh you have you have a lot
of social activities you have a lot of
um cultural things that revolve around
food is that true y y very true uh so
you have these huge self Indian meals
that you get at weddings of you know
when you go uh to get togethers you have
uh you have you have alcohol you have
you have sweets all around you you have
uh you know the Rices different types of
Rices that they make uh you know variety
Rises and and all of
that it's uh it's not actually dting I
don't know for what odd reason I'm
actually content with the food I'm
eating wow nothing that people eat in
front of me is going to make me want the
food that they eating I'm actually happy
with the you know that's that's a good
point I want to bring up
because that's common thread with so
many people and when you have that state
where you're you can compare before when
you're doing the carb thing like you
just like want all these carbs when your
body switches over it's like the it's
almost like you could really observe
these addictions and these Cravings that
are not normal basically our bodies
aren't designed to consume the amount of
glucose I mean it's amazing I mean you
guys have a lot of uh probably diabetes
and obesity in your country y yep yep
it's uh it's definitely to uh my mom's
actually diabetic I've tried to you know
to her to uh cutting down sugars I've
actually she she's she's stopped you
know the refined sugars so I'm actually
even uh know trying to brainwash her
also into starting like a diet uh there
are a lot of people I mean a lot of
people actually die because of
diabetes death rates of pretty high uh
you know blood pressure and diabetes are
you know how how is how is your blood
pressure in your cholesterol now oh yeah
um I think 3 months into the program uh
my uh LDL was down my tri stes were
perfectly fine I checked all of that out
uh and uh I think it was a month ago
where where I actually uh visited one of
the doctors and I wanted them to have
get my B checked it was normal uh my mom
actually didn't trust that doctor she
said let's go get get a second opinion
from another doctor and I did that as
well couple of days later I went checked
out with another doctor as well it's
it's normal and your blood pressure yeah
it's perfectly normal i' I've chucked
all of the tablets out not taking any uh
more medication for blood sugar uh I'm
sorry for blood pressure off or U you
know cholesterol everything's uh you
know normal I'm I'm losing weight in a
in a slow pace manner I think uh I mean
it's it's quite a bit because it's been
about 11 months now since i' uh actually
started this uh so everything is in uh
place and uh I'm actually I mean it's
definitely something that you know you
can't stop I mean it's it's like you're
addicted to it it's like uh you want to
see how far you can actually push your
body right I mean that phase now I I
mean uh I I'm doing so many things that
I couldn't do I I got myself a bike I'm
going cycling all over uh I I can
actually run now something that I
couldn't
do you know all my u schooling or my uh
University life um I'm able to do
physical activities go out uh trekking
with my friends you know climb up small
hills and and without like fatigue so
I'm basically in the best shape of my
life wow so tell me
um how tall are you uh six
62 six six six' tall yeah okay and
you're 190 right now or 193 19 yeah
18 great um are you do you want to keep
going get lose more weight are you happy
with what you I'm actually uh I've
started uh weight training as well so to
build up a little muscle so uh you know
the shoulders uh the biceps triceps
forearms so like building up the upper
body so that it looks a little tone so
that's also something that I've added in
my uh you
know great have you have you had people
around you that watched you and were
impressed and then all of a sudden they
started doing the same thing yep okay
yep I do have uh quite a bit of people
at my workplace itself that uh uh look
at me as a role model like how I look at
you as a role model uh and uh yeah old
uh office mates uh you know basically
people that I've actually seen after a
long time and uh and people that have
actually seen me transform from where I
was to actually what I am
uh now uh everyone's uh you know really
impressed and
uh um I think some want uh to you know
uh to start this uh as a you know a life
change for them but but some people they
keep asking me for tips and U you know
quick ways of losing it this this not
really quick way I mean it's there's
just more one way it's it's it's the
hard way but when you get started it's
actually not that not I mean it's really
simple yeah do I think anyone can do
exactly a couple little tips uh when you
deal with people that will come up to
you and say well what do I how do I do
it what do I do what's your secret um I
never ever tell them I will I will say
well let me ask you are you willing to
do what it takes like get their
commitment are you willing to
change um because there's only those
people that are willing to change that
are going to do it and then I'll and
then I'll actually send them to a video
because that way instead of telling them
what to do if they understand the why
behind it then the doing this is easy
because then it makes sense to them
versus oh let me just tell you what to
eat I've never had anyone follow that
recommendation ever um so like I I'll
give you one example and they usually
I'll get a call from um well you know
I'm a celebrity or I'm um did a movie or
something I'm very important uh they get
me on the phone or something and then
they well if you if you can help me I'll
tell all my friends and blah if I had a
nickel for every time they said that
right so I just learned
that spend the time I don't care who you
are watch the videos learn yourself I
created the YouTube videos to help
people like do it themselves so they're
not dependent on me versus trying to go
every 5 Seconds okay what do I do next
what I'm like learn it for yourself I
mean almost every little I mean solution
is in the videos it's all there you just
have to spend the time and learn it and
um there's a lot of extra information
especially if you have health problems
what to do if this happens or that but I
think um I think you're a perfect
example of just basically learning and
applying and have it work so that's
awesome well
done thanks thanks St much appreciated
sure I mean you really appreciate the
work that you do that does there's quite
a bit of people that actually appreciate
the work to I mean um you're you're
great you're great yeah my pleasure I I
mean this it's it's very fulfilling to
uh I'm in the perfect job I I live to
help people it's very fulfilling uh I'm
not happy unless I'm helping a lot of
people so I appreciate
that well thanks for the interview and
uh we'll do a a post interview maybe in
a couple months to kind of recap and and
see how you're doing how about that
okay wonderful all right thanks so much
have a great day or night wherever you
are night oh okay great okay see you
