so why do most Indian men have pot
bellies now I have done another video on
this previously but I have some new
information that goes beyond just eating
too many carbs so to get more accurate
information about this topic I'm
bringing on Dr rashne Who is an
endocrinologist that actually lives in
India doc thanks for coming on I I
wanted to just say hello and uh good to
see you again yes thanks for having me
Dr Eric it's been great to connect and
and be in touch again yeah I wanted to
really talk
about what's happening in India
especially related to belly fat and I
know it's a big problem all over the
world but especially in India for
several reasons I did a video on this
before and uh this is kind of a part two
because there's some additional
information after talking with you that
I found out that I think I want to share
that goes a little bit beyond just
lowering your carbohydrates trying to
lose weight so we're going to talk about
that as well I think you were you were
born in the US but then you lived half
of your life in India you treat people
as a medical doctor and as an
endocrinologist so I'm so glad that I
have someone who actually can give me
firsthand knowledge of what's happening
in India so can you just kind of give
people an overview of the type of health
problems that are we're running into in
India of having uh protruded bellies oh
yes there's a a lot we can cover there
Dr Eric um you know it's actually no
longer you know type 2 diabetes is
obviously something that comes into our
world a lot as endocrinologists um we
deal with sure you know PCOS polycystic
ovarian syndrome uh we deal now with
seeing younger and younger people
getting sick from insulin resistance
even people who shouldn't be getting
insulin resistance we think of someone
with type 1 diabetes we see them getting
insulin resistance so India is not IM
imune to what the rest of the world is
seeing we have little children now it's
there are some states in India that have
one in three children with highy tri
glycerides and fatty liver already on
sonography and the protruding belly is
hitting these young children right from
when they're little and it's part of it
could be nature part of it could be
genetic tendency but a lot of it if you
take it in the right way is good news
it's environmental it's something we
have control over in terms of our
lifestyle and our choices but a lot of
Lifestyle Changes are coming in where
insulin resistance protruding bellies
we're seeing it across the board the
diabetes metabolic crisis in India is
exploding we may not be the most obese
country in the world but we're up there
in the top five in terms of Maximum
cases of type two diabetes as well as
cardiometabolic so early cardiac issues
you know I'm just dying to ask you this
one question about that because you know
just to keep this really simple I think
I'm assuming that most people know this
but but they might not when you eat
carbohydrates in excess amounts it
triggers a hormone called insulin and
then insulin is the hormone that not
only stores fat but it prevents you from
burning fat okay so that's what insulin
is but here's my question when you went
through medical school then you studied
Endocrinology when a doctor goes through
this intensive medical training
especially on insulin which is the main
hormone but somehow it gets kind of
disconnected when you get into the
carbohydrate triggering insulin and I
mean it's just obvious when you step
back now and look at it like okay so if
you have too much fat obviously you have
too much insulin but in medical school I
don't know what tell tell me what
happens when someone is taught that
and as far as an average medical doctor
that or an average endocrinologist and
somehow they don't connect the dots to
lowering your carb oh yes yeah you know
that's uh I had to look back to
understand where did my my basics of
first year of medical school from
biochemistry where carbohydrate was the
food group that triggers the maximum
insulin response or the maximum insulin
requirement you know there was a
disconnect from learning that in first
year of medical school till the time we
came to second year where we were
studying pharmacology already there was
a disconnect where we were memorizing
the types of insulin the NPH the quick
acting the long acting the newer
molecules how to prescribe them and then
in third year medical school we went
into internal medicine and we had
Harrison's textbook and it was very
little time spent on the lifestyle
aspect and much more time spent on the
prescription aspect whether it was the
presence of pharmaceutical
representatives in our clinics you know
funding or doing these little reminders
of what to prescribe there was very
little time or energy in my medical
school training for nutrition Beyond the
first year and then MD medicine Internal
Medicine in the hospital you know people
who are sick and admitted they're sick
enough to be admitted to
hospital really the con the concept of
doing lifestyle discussion or nutrition
discussion wasn't really relevant in a
way it sounds bad but here's somebody
who's really sick they're like you know
lying in a hospital bed getting Hospital
trays it's not seeming like the right
time to talk about nutrition or
carbohydrates they're eating what's on
the plate and then went into Fellowship
to become an
endocrinologist an insulin specialist
right and I'm still prescribing medicine
but I've not had the training handson
how to change
nutrition so this is mind-blowing
because I went through Premed but I
didn't go to medical school I went to
Chiropractic College there's just not
enough time to really learn the
information I had to past the test I had
to memorize and get on to the next test
because there's so much information
being crammed down our throats and then
but you don't have time to really go out
let me apply apply this Theory and and
also how can we use this information
practically it's just not talked about
so I guess what you're saying is like
you're taught this
information but then there's a just a
disconnect on the diet part or the food
part a big disconnect a big disconnect
or the nutrition part yeah I wouldn't
say that doctors were getting hardcore
or thorough nutrition training I
wouldn't say that there must have been a
point when you Gra graduated you're
going out there just doing what you were
taught there must have been a shift can
you tell us what happened at that point
yes so um I I noticed you know when I
was an endocrine fellow that we as
fellows in training would run around run
around one side of the corridor running
into the patient rooms to do the
consults and then talk to our senior
doctors and get the sign off on the
medication changes we wanted to make and
one of the prescriptions we would write
along with the insulin or the
medications for diabetes for example uh
was go to this diabetes class and I was
like well that's interesting there's a
class and it's on the other side of this
Corridor luckily for me it was on the
same campus in the same
building and so as I was graduating I
got you know permission to go and sit in
on some of these classes by the diabetes
Educators because I was curious about
the behavioral elements and what are
they teaching over there that might be
useful to my patient that I'm asking
them to take out time and come again to
take this educational course so I didn't
I was having a bit of fomo like I didn't
want to miss out on what was being said
so that was my first exposure to the
impact of nutrition and you know Dr Berg
it's almost like a paradox it's like I
had blinders on because
endocrinologists are the most trained
doctors when it comes to treating people
with type 1 diabetes when I have to
prescribe insulin for someone right and
over there we're taught insulin
carbohydrate ratio which means for how
many grams of carbohydrate how many
grams of insulin am I trying to give
this patient and I teach the patient
that is how much they need to be
injected for that meal and yet this
knowledge stayed there and it didn't
come out until much later when I was
like wait a minute that's a secret
formula if I lower the carbs I lower the
insulin it was right in front of my
face God okay I mean same thing like if
you're talking about a type 1 diabetic
right they have to take insulin because
they don't have insulin so they can't
regulate the sugars because insulin
lowers the blood sugar so obviously this
is the amount of insulin you take is
depending on how much carbohydrate you
eat what you're talking about is that
information just did not quite sink in
right away it didn't move to other parts
of my career it just stayed in this
place and so in type one when I was walk
working with someone I would say hey if
you don't want so much insulin because
you're gaining weight you're getting
this bit of a belly you know you started
out normal weight a lot of people start
out normal weight and then the higher
the insulin dose goes in type one they
start gaining weight um and so we would
say well if you reduce your carbs we're
going to have to give you less insulin
so that was an obvious thing there but
it just didn't translate to all areas of
my career until later where a series of
events when I decided to move from the
United States to India that's when a
bulb went on is you know I love these
classes that my patients are getting in
Chicago and I want to learn that so I
can carry the educational material to
India I don't want to just carry my
insulin prescribing uh knowledge and
Medicine prescribing I want to know the
education piece because I felt like that
would connect me to the culture in India
if I did the education myself I would
listen I would hear I would understand
what's going on in India because I'd
been out of India for 10 years and so I
wanted to use the educator hat to
connect back with my my
culture through those listening
experiences I started hearing what was
going on with people's nutrition and
that that really started in 2011 and by
2013 I was just making a lot of progress
with helping people realize that if they
want to avoid more medicines or getting
on to insulin in type two diabetes we
had to show them the relationship
between carbohydrates and the insulin
that was giving them this gaining of
belly and all this weight gain in the
wrong areas wow okay so fast forward
you're in India um let's talk about
carbohydrates there's a lot of
carbohydrates in the world but
definitely I think and when you go to a
restaurant you have different cultural
festivals you have everything kind of
revolves around carbohydrates what are
the top carbs that the Indians eat I can
how about I walk you through breakfast
lunch dinner like that is
that okay so what is considered a light
breakfast because we've been as affected
by the low fat low calorie um
unfortunate messaging that went around
probably from the 1970s India has been
listening to that and has been badly
affected by trying to do a calorie or a
lowfat approach so they think low fat or
light breakfast is preferred which ends
up being a lot of carbohydrates so
breakfast options include um idly Dosa
Opa poha some people might do like a if
you're from the north of India you might
do a parata or like a piece of bread or
a Roy if you're from my area of the
state which is Gujarat you might do like
a spicy kind of a bread like a tapel
some people love to have tapel these are
some common breakfast
items if you're trying to go healthy you
might do corn flakes or you might do mu
and you might do juice some people will
do a bowl of fruit some people are told
in India stay with only fruit in the
first half of the day so they'll load up
on their fruits in the morning or
they'll go for their morning walks and
then they'll have a fruit juice to sort
of power power that walk again these are
all carbohydrates all processed and
refined some of them sugar oats people
have taken to reading and hearing that
oats are heart healthy and that same
messaging has been in India as well so
they might do instant quick cooking oats
and then they might do versions of that
where they do oats Opa or oats idly so
they think that by adding the oats into
the other Indian dishes they're doing
something better than just the rice or
the wheat so that's just
breakfast and I probably missed two I
probably miss missed some
yeah if we go to lunch you and some
people do a midm morning snack again if
they're being health conscious they may
have been told to have a fruit as a midm
morning snack if you do that breakfast
one and a half hours later you're going
to need a snack because it's going to
put you in a state of hunger yes because
of that big insulin spike in the morning
and you're hungry
and this is the classic pattern I see is
small frequent meals hungry all day
cannot go more than 3 hours 4 hours
without feeling hungry and wanting
something Cravings a lot of
Cravings um lunch typically is either
Roy or rice some people if they're again
health conscious they may be switching
from wheat they may be switching to
millets and the government of India is
you know trying to actually promote more
Millet usage I'm okay with a millet if
it would be a whole grain where you can
actually see the Millet but a lot of
these have been pulverized into a powder
and they're being converted into snacks
or you know again Roy or flatbread made
from flowers um so you've done a lot of
processing to these grains or millets so
you have some form of a flatbread or
rice with a side of maybe a vegetable or
a doll if you're a vegetarian if you're
carrying lunch from home one good thing
that I still see in India is a lot of
people carry lunch from home but we have
a very hot climate so someone who's
cooking for you in the morning or you're
cooking your own lunch and carrying it
in lunch usually you don't want it to be
something very liquidy or that's going
to spill or leak or go bad so it might
be more on the dry side so you end up
not having a lot of protein in these
lunches very commonly if you're not
careful you'll end up being protein
deficient at lunch as well there's just
basically maybe a grain or a processed
grain and some vegetable maybe if you
eat animal protein you have a small
amount of animal protein at lunch and
then is there a mid-afternoon snack oh
yeah so again this is where a lot of
hunger pangs hit people I give a survey
to all of my patients when they come in
like an intake form and so many people
mark off that 5:00 is the worst 4:00 is
the worst so we have a chai culture in
India where we love our chai and so the
afternoon or you know mid evening early
evening 4:00 3:00 chai a lot of people
want to have some dry crunchy munchy
snacks again these may be uh light
because they're fat-free and they're
like baked and roasted and not versus
fried so people think it's good for you
this could be puffed rice it could be um
Millet flakes Millet chips um a lot of
these crunchy snacky things that people
want maybe if you're trying to be
healthy you might do a fruit and then
for dinner for dinner again um not
everybody prioritizes protein at dinner
sometimes if again I'm a Gujarati so
know them the most again highly
vegetarian by preference and by culture
so dinner they don't want the sort of
bread and like the flatbread and the
vegetable and the dll combo they want
variety at night so they might do a
variation of a pizza or a pasta or a
lasagna or a Mexican dish you know I'm
going to use some Indian words here cuz
you know this is for them is like Raga
pattis which is Al lentil soup and
potato fritters you could call them
we're looking at a lot of carbohydrates
so if we take a look at a carbohydrate I
think there's a really big confusion on
what a carbohydrate is because it's not
just one thing it's basically three
things to keep it simple you have fiber
that's a carbohydrate you have sugar
which is a carbohydrate but there's a
third thing if you deduct the fiber and
the sugar there's something else that's
left and this is what I think people
don't even they're not aware of what
that is and that would be a starch and
and what is a starch starch is a bunch
of sugar it's more sugar it's more
hidden sugar especially if the way that
they process it around the world so if
you you know we talk about how much
sugar an actual person is consuming it's
a lot per day but if we include the
starches and we look at the percentage
of calories of combined carbohydrates
and that's all the carbohydrates we're
looking at what is it 60 70 maybe even
80% or more of their calories are
carbs right unfortunately yes especially
if you're vegetarian and you've just not
met someone who's educating you about
lowering your carbs your default Indian
choices are going to be more than half
carbs wow how can someone start lowering
their carb because obviously we need to
reduce insulin to solve this problem
live in India and actually do this and
actually maintain a vegetarian lifestyle
we want to talk about that there's a
second problem that
you've mentioned to me what some of
these foods do to our digestive system
like we get a lot of bloating and it's
going to make you look like you're
pregnant you're going to give you a pot
belly do you see that in your practice
people coming in with distended stomachs
every day Dr Burg every day and again in
that intake form because I'm you know
Internal Medicine base always and then
an endocrinologist after so I ask about
all the organ systems because I want to
look at you as a whole so I'm asking
about dig digestive symptoms and we did
a little analysis of our practice and I
was surprised that the topmost complaint
people had when they came in was
digestive complaints and I was like I'm
not a gastroenterologist but they're
suffering from this the good news was
even though they came in with the gas
the bloating the you know distended
belly it would go in and out 2 three
inches depending on what they ate we've
been able to sort of crack how to help
them see that phenomenon change just by
working on their food the problem is and
I'm sure you've probably see this a lot
of your patients are on antibiotics or
ppis and it just gets worse and worse
and worse so then what happens is you
get this overgrowth right of all this
candida and stuff and now we're in a
situation where if they just eat a
little bit of fiber they're going to
feel like there's a balloon in their
stomach a human or an animal or even an
insect will continue to eat until they
satisfy their protein
requirements so do you see this in your
practice every day I see people again
not satiated from their meals wanting
something more sometimes they describe
this as Cravings sweet Cravings they
sometime somehow they want more sugar
and sweet and I suspect it's because
they've just not been nourished they're
still looking for that energy somehow
and protein should used forgy but
there's something that's get
misinterpreted asting to seek out sugar
and when you're dealing with the high
insulin that we talked about adding more
sugar just keeps you really stuck in
this same vicious cycle but I've been
doing diet recalls for my patients and
counting their nutrition since 2011
myself because I was you know the
educator for my patients since
2011 and in
India I see people coming in when they
first see me most of them are less than
5050 gram of protein per day and a very
large majority of them are getting less
than 25 grams 25 grams of protein per
day this is interesting because when
someone gets enough protein they're
going to be satisfied and the likelihood
of them snacking and like if they went
on a low carb diet now without
satisfying the protein it's going to be
really hard to fix that problem exactly
because you're taking someone who's
hungry all the time and you're telling
them to reduce their carbohydrates but
then right so so like how are they going
to be satisfied right yeah right exactly
so what I've learned is to flip the
process is yes they're high on
carbohydrates but that's all they're
using to sort of almost like
mechanically fill the stomach with
something and feel that
stretch and you know it's very
interesting because I think this is the
origin of the myth that happens in India
or circulates in India is that protein
is heavy and I'm sure that they when
they say protein is heavy what what they
haven't understood is that's what Sati
is supposed to feel like it's supposed
to fill you
up and so when we increase the protein
they start feeling full and they're
finally like oh I'm done I don't need
more the thing that turned me around cuz
I used to live on pure carbs huge muffin
for breakfast and cereal and I would do
that it took me until 11:00 in the
morning until I can wake up mentally and
then one day I started having protein
for breakfast and boy that was like a
miracle I can actually wake up how does
someone being a vegetarian increase the
amount of protein to start the day off
right yes this is again something we're
trying to solve for every day in
practice and we'll stick to vegetarian
because it's so much easier and you've
got so much content out uh for your
audience about how if you are okay with
animal protein it's just so much easier
to get your protein to happen at each
meal but the unique problem is for
someone who's you know choosing to be
vegetarian within India there are some
vegetarians who are okay with eggs and
there are some who will not even go near
eggs just it's absolutely against their
belief systems and I cannot even get
them to take eggs which would be a
really good quality whole protein for
them um so many vegetarians in India are
okay with dairy and so we use that a lot
let's just talk about like a specific
types of foods that they can have
related to
Dairy right and you know Dr Berg one of
the things I've done is I try to reduce
the um habit friction so I kind of look
at what they're already eating so that
they don't have to all of a sudden flip
their grocery list and do something out
of the way that's not going to match
their running kitchen India is a lot of
large families living Under One Roof a
lot of different tastes and preferences
a lot of actively running kitchens all
day long so the idea is to not shut down
the cooking system that's working but to
start with baby steps I know what would
be ideal is to get these people to 1.2
Gams of protein at least per kg body
weight per day every day but sometimes I
have to start with if I'm trying to get
to 80 or 90 or 100 grams of protein but
I'm starting at 20 I'm like how can we
make this 30 how can we from your
existing menu so I'll look at what Dairy
they have I'll look at what legumes they
have I'll show them how okay these come
with some natural carbohydrates and I
make them use my app and I I made my own
app because the existing apps out there
they do a lot of calorie counting and as
an endocrinologist you know we want them
to focus on carbs and proteins and the
hormonal basis for why their bellies
coming out and not the calorie way
because just reducing calories just
hasn't worked and my app is populated
with Indian foods and me and my team
have counted out each food and we keep
adding new things to the to the back end
to show you your carbs and proteins so
we're like put your Foods in and you'll
start to see where you are on your carbs
for the day where you are on the
proteins for the day let's see if you
can start dialing your existing proteins
up so that means if you took legumes
double them if you took these carbs can
you have them and that's like the
easiest way for me to get them started
and so obviously we have the yogurt do
you do kefir as well it's available it's
a bit of a almost like a privileged uh
food here it's not easily available
everywhere so I wouldn't say it's
something that the masses of India are
going to be able to access it's maybe in
the very healthc conscious big cities in
the refrigerators okay so then we're
talking about like uh yogurt and then uh
cheese yes they'll do milk they'll do
yogurt they do homemade Indian paneer
cheese which is like the fresh you split
the milk curdle the milk and you get
this fresh paneer I can get by with a
meal with um and do just fine with
cheese so cheese I do a lot of cheese in
my diet and that's a really good protein
Source too because the when you have
cheese that is fermented it eats up a
lot of the milk sugar then sure you can
sneak in some nuts and seeds and nut
Butters but if you're pure vegetarian I
know we're not going to reach 1.2 gram
per kilo body weight without adding a
protein supplement you know and people
will say you know oh you should avoid
powders and you should avoid processed
food and I agree but in a world where
we're not touching animal protein you're
touching ing processed carbohydrates
anyway you're touching flowers you're
touching packaged you know shelf stable
things that are just not fresh they're
like instant eat there no cooking
required if we're going to choose
processed maybe this is the one Vice is
to take a protein supplement and from
all of those whey is really not that
processed if you think about it it's
just dehydrated liquid from when you
split the milk out and get the solids
out the liquid is the way so that would
be the Le processed it's actually a
complete protein as well so I think
that's a great great thing to do so
let's say a person wanted to get a good
amount of their protein from whey I
guess it would listed on the label how
much they would need but I don't know if
you have any simple ways that would they
yeah so one scoop gives you the typical
way the packaging comes here one scoop
gives you about 25 grams and so the way
I ask to do the math here is if I've
given them a target of 1.2 let's take uh
a 60 kg person we're aiming for 70 to 75
gram I usually go on the higher end of
estimating for them because they're
plant-based it's vegetarian I know the
availability of these is a bit on the
Lower Side 1.2 and then I'll just like
throw in an extra five or 10 just to
make an easy number so 75 so 75 I can
divide that easily 25 25 25 breakfast
lunch and dinner might be that you need
the Whey Protein scoop if you find that
when you do your math for the day is you
know what you're going to eat you know
you're going to have some legum and some
lentils you know you're going to have
some paneer some soft fresh cheese you
do the math or some people have started
plugging it into my app as they plan the
day is oh that's going to get me to 40
so I'm short by 30 or 35 so then they'll
do a scoop or a scoop and a half of the
protein shake by starting with the
protein you're going to start being
satisfied if someone's willing to do
eggs how many eggs cuz some people are
concerned about cholesterol right so why
don't you mention that point yeah I mean
there are days Dr Bur that I eat eight
or 10 eggs a day if I if I haven't
thought about what to eat or what to
make or cook I'm like you know what it's
just easier let me just do the eggs
right and there's been no real link that
dietary cholesterol raises the bad
cholesterol this is a myth that even the
American Heart Association has come out
and backed off from saying it was sort
of bad information told to us in the 70s
and it just really stuck so I have to
reassure them is it's not the eggs that
we're going to worry about we're going
to look at other things to make sure
you're health from a cardiac standpoint
oh that's great now do you in India do
they have a lot of let's say tofu things
like that is that an option or no it is
again I would say that it's an acquired
taste in India tofu versus paneer it's
texturally different the flavor is
different um I love tofu because of the
profile it has in terms of carbs and um
proteins um so we have a lot of tofu in
our house it's also one of those things
that if you're using non- GMO soybeans
can be expensive so if you're finding
there are indian-made and India actually
produces quite a bit of soy soybeans and
a colleague of mine told me that India
does non- GMO soybeans and so if you can
get local Indian made too it's picking
up in popularity now so you're getting
Tempe now in India as well and the
Indians are really into their spice so
you get ready to eat um Tempe that's
been flavored and seasoned with like
Indian spice profiles so that they can
hide the taste of the Tempe because
that's a bit funky to get used to um so
the big cities do have tofu and Tempe so
let's roll right into digestive problems
I know one of the great things about
India is the spices and you have
turmeric for example that help with
bloating help with digestion and so that
probably offsets some of the things I
know even in America when you go to an
Indian restaurant they they will give
you some some spices after of course
it's coated in sugar but uh you know
you're consuming spices to kind of help
some with the bloating is there a common
spice that Indians use after they eat
every kitchen starts with turmeric every
meal has turmeric every day there's
turmeric every day but we still have
digestive problems we have cumin in
almost everyday cooking there's a small
community within India that won't touch
onions and garlic they they have
religious beliefs around that you did
mention about the antibiotics and ppis
the the good and bad about India is
these things are available over the
counter so people wow yeah people
self-prescribed
self-prescribed wow I think what's
happening especially that you just told
me that information if someone has taken
an antibiotic sometime in their life now
you're going to limit the the microbes
that are going to help you digest and so
over time now you can't digest this now
you're getting gas from that and then
those microbes need to be replaced
another thing that that we want to talk
about is like fermented foods are there
fermented foods in India yes the ones I
prescribe are some somewhat imported in
the sense that they come from other
cultures like the sauerkraut Keir or the
kimchi in terms of Indian fermented
foods there are some but again they tend
to be on the spicy side so the fermented
yogurt is one like there's a digestive
beverage that a lot of Indians will have
after the meal which is yogurt in water
so diluted yogurt shaken up in water and
they'll put some powdered cumin in there
maybe some spices in there and they
drink it like a digestive after their
meals when we talk about starches you
know people think oh potatoes but that's
not what's in a lot of foods you have
modified corn starch Mt dextrin modified
food starch let's just touch on that and
how that can eliminating those foods can
majorly help with the bloating we have
to teach our our patients you know we do
a lot of label reading classes with them
where we show them how to look for these
hidden ingredients is they're not
understanding the the the technical
words you know it's not recognizable as
a starch you know it's obvious if it's
pasta or it's obvious if it's a potato
but these you know strange long words we
have to make them understand how to find
those and even the way a starch hits you
you know this is one of my sort of
arguments is sure every culture has its
traditional wisdom and we have our
traditional millet and our traditional
grains and our non-GMO wheat that's been
around for many centuries and people
want to talk about oh but we're eating
what our ancestors ate the thing is when
you powder these grains you're taking
that starch that was in the middle of it
you know the starch was meant for that
little seed to go in the soil and in the
dark where there was no sunlight to be
able to make some energy for this Little
Chute so that it could poke enough
energy out and get those little leaves
up to start the photosynthesis and get
energy from the Sun so that starch was
meant to be given at a specific time to
this plant
underground we've taken that seed and
crushed it to a level fine powder and
we're getting that starch right up front
and it's really sad because people tell
me oh proteins are difficult to digest
and I think what they're going through
is exactly what you described is the
starches are hitting them first the good
bacteria in their bodies have been
destroyed out by some lifestyle choices
by medications and then they're trying
to pop some Prebiotic probiotic
supplements and so they're just in this
endless cycle of you know medications
and just not getting better are you
doing grain based are you doing
plant-based and then also like raw
vegetables a big part of the of an
Indian diet or is it just cooked
vegetables some cultures do a lot of
salad you know small quantities of just
fresh freshly chopped really her
herbaceous you know lovely light
seasonings like cilantro mint we do have
lovely herbs that you get it's a warm
country you know there's lots of
availability of greens like that micro
greens are becoming popular here and
some of the foods will be cooked now
there there is a spectrum here like
sometimes it's almost like a generation
gap where people My Generation want
their vegetables Al Dente like where
there's still some bite and sometimes
it's the kids and the elders who really
want their vegetables cooked into a mush
almost like it's unrecognizable there's
no chewing required
yeah yeah that's uh yeah it's like you
take some of the spinach and you just
pulverize it to to nothing that's
another thing like I think could help
people with their digestion is having
like more salad than the grains that can
help with the bloating as well yes so we
tell people go up on the fresh
vegetables go down on the grains for
sure but it's always that whole process
is after we've up the protein so my
first agenda in any consult is to up the
protein first there are times where I
have to tell people look I can't make
progress with you in your metabolic
goals until we get that protein to
happen at each meal so here I sort of
really make it accessible to you is
instead of saying reduce your carbs cuz
people are like I'm not eating any carbs
they they don't think they're eating
carbs right they're like I'm eating home
food I'm eating freshly cooked meals I'm
eating my traditional Indian diet so I
have to say okay let's reduce your Roti
your rice your U barata so I list out
the Indian words for these carbohydrate
predominant meals Opa poha kakura Etc
these long Indian names you know and
let's cut it to half that's after
they've upped the protein to double
because most people have enough room for
me to say just double your protein
because they're so deficient on protein
even if I double they're not going
anywhere near excess yeah this is It's a
tricky problem because I know in America
we have a lot less uh vegetarians and
vegans so you know we can recommend
certain animal Meats but not not in
other cultures the trick is okay how do
we how do we do this to lower the carbs
I think you're right we need to start
with the protein because that's going to
make it easy to do or a lot easier it's
going to be much harder so I always do
the protein conversation first so I'm
not taking a hungry person who's full
with the two Roes or the one and 1/2
cups of rice let's say they're eating
two chapatis or Roes breads flatbreads
or you know two cups of rice let's just
make a number they're eating one cup of
vegetables and they're eating one cup of
legumes lentil soup
doll I will say can you cut the Roti
under rice to 50% and can you double the
vegetables and the do two cups of those
and two cups of those can you do that
and they'll be like I'll be so full I
was like you want that right you don't
want to be hungry all day so when we do
the increase in the vegetables and the
proteins they themselves are able to
then self taper the carbs and in India
again more and more people are getting
exposed to the idea of wearing a CGM a
continuous glucose monitor which is a
little wearable chip it's a device you
can wear for two weeks and when they
wear that they can see what happens with
their carbohydrate intake how their
glucose levels are spiking and then we
have them run the experiment to see you
had two servings of this grain your
glucose spiked up tomorrow I want you to
try that's a great teaching tool right
and why don't you cut that grain to 50%
and then tomorrow see what happens then
it's not them taking my word for it it's
them and their body having a
conversation this is amazing so um for
those of you that need to work with a
very competent physician I I want to put
your link down below where they can get
a hold of you and they can learn more
about your website and your in your
program because there's so many people
out there that are on medications that
need assistance that this is a new thing
for them and I know that you have
several programs amazing book as well
that I'm getting through right now I'm
halfway through it which is filled with
just gold information so I'm going to
put those links down below but it's been
a pleasure uh discussing these topics
and I think there's a lot of great ideas
for people to start implementing on a
regular basis and uh I think if people
could just try this they're going to
find that it's going to work for them
I'm just so glad to talk to a medical
doctor especially an endocrinologist
that is
primarily focus on someone's food
because that's very
rare yes yes today we talked all about
food and it's the first step it's
definitely the first step to helping the
body do its
thing yeah exactly thanks so much doc I
really appreciate your time thank you Dr
Burke
