hi guys in this video I want to
differentiate between a canker sore and
a cold sore okay they're not the same
thing a canker sore is a little white or
yellow ulcer on the inside lip or an
inside of the mouth a cold sore is an
actual little author or a bump or
pustule sack on the lip or around the
mouth okay the cold sore is viral it's a
virus a canker sore is a nutritional
deficiency of b12 and fully these are B
vitamins this is a virus herpes simplex
you cannot kill a virus because it's not
alive in the first place so all you can
do is keep it in remission and it just
hangs out in this same location all the
time like right at a certain part of
your lip and it just kicks out under
stress stress will activate the virus
okay also nutritional deficiencies so
when you go through some type of
stressful event boom comes out and you
get a cold sore okay
a cold sore is contagious alright for
about ten days a canker sore is not
because it's a vitamin deficiency you
get a canker sore by consuming refined
grains and refined foods like breads and
pastas and cereals and crackers and
biscuits and waffles pancakes right also
it could come from a digestion problem
it's an antibiotic where you you have I
don't know irritable bowel syndrome or
chronic inflammation in your gut they
can get all that and then that could be
why you're not absorbing b12 or folate
or other B vitamins okay that's another
cost but it's not contagious
I'm going to recommend for a canker sore
just to clean up your diet and don't
consume any more refined grains also
take nutritional yeast that would help
this greatly okay and a cold sore what
you have to do is you could speed up the
cycle of the virus by taking the life
seen which is an amino acid and vitamin
C make sure the vitamin C is a food base
complex not a synthetic alright thanks
for watching
forget it forget it I'm done press the
subscribe button and I will keep you
updated on the future events
