hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about gastric bypass and keto and
intermittent fasting some of you out
there have had this procedure done and
you're wondering if it's safe if it's
okay if it's beneficial to start the
keto plan and you in a minute fasting
okay well first let's talk about what's
really going on in the body
you're basically missing the full
function of part of your digestive
system sometimes it's going to be the
stomach sometimes it's small intestine
sometimes it's a combination of both now
the purpose of the stomach is to help
you break down protein into amino acids
and also to absorb minerals among other
functions like killing off microbes and
things like that so we maybe you won't
have the full function of breaking down
protein in observing minerals so those
are two little factors we're going to
come back to the small intestine on the
other hand controls 90% of the
absorption of all your nutrients so a
lot of the digestion starts in the small
intestine and then in the small
intestine you get like 90% of your
digestion happening there so those two
key areas are crucial in your ability to
assimilate minerals and break down food
okay so yes we want you to do this but
we want you to do it with a twist
you're gonna have to add some something
to acidify the stomach where there's out
cider vinegar or apple cider vinegar
pills or something called betaine
hydrochloride or the combination of both
which will then start really helping you
break down proteins and start pulling in
minerals just by that alone okay so it's
not necessarily a nutrient it's
something to help you absorb the
nutrients the next thing that's probably
very important is something called
purified bile salts that's gonna support
the gall bladder because when people
have gastric bypass it alters their
ability to release bile
so now they can't absorb 100% the fat
Seibel vitamins the other fats that are
essential for health and your cellular
membrane and your brain and your nervous
system so instead of adding more fat or
fat type of vitamins as pills I
recommend you take a purified by a salt
and that way you can
get after the meal and help absorb the
food that you're already consuming okay
so that's number two and the third thing
is minerals okay you're gonna need the
minerals especially the trace minerals
simply because you don't have the
surface area and those parts to really
pull pull it in so I would get a liquid
plant-based trace minerals very very
important for for doing this program so
after you add the acid and the bile
salts then you want to add minerals I
recommend plant-based trace minerals why
because it absorbs so much better than
other types of minerals it has like 100
percent absorption rate because the
minerals are 15,000 times smaller than
other minerals okay so you can really
pull that in but when you do the
intimate of fasting and I'll put a link
down below how to do it you basically
create what's called a toff adji the
recycling of your protein so the need
for protein goes way way down in fact in
a minute fasting will stimulate growth
hormone human growth hormone by 1300
percent to up to 2,000 percent that's
also going to preserve your own protein
so that again the need for protein is
gonna go down which is exactly what you
want to do because you don't have the
surface area to really digest the
quantity of food so basically in a
minute fasting makes your machine your
digestive machine very efficient so you
don't need as much raw material plus
doing this and keto reduces insulin
resistance it actually improves insulin
resistance to the point where insulin
now works again and when insulin works
that alone helps you absorb more
nutrients so it is essential for anyone
who had gastric bypass to do keto in a
minute fasting not just for your weight
loss but for health in general
alright so I put a link down below to
get more information on acids and bile
salts and minerals alright thanks for
watching hey guys a lot of you already
have my book some of you don't but this
new edition called the new body type
guide is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat bar
it has a hundred fifty six images 378
pages full glossary I talk about Kido in
a minute fasting the body types in
detail I have a new stress chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
any comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
