hi guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna discuss something called metabolic
syndrome it's called syndrome X okay and
we're going to talk about it it's really
kind of a combination of several things
like high blood pressure belly fat high
sugar cholesterol and in other countries
you can add a couple other things in
there as well okay so it's so
interesting because if you then look up
something called hyper insulin emia high
insulin okay they'll say that this
condition is associated with metabolic
syndrome and these symptoms okay but
really it causes it okay so I'm going to
show you something out of Wikipedia it
talks about high insulin
hyperinsulinemia okay this is associated
with hypertension I love that it's not
associated it's causing okay I'll
explain it surely obesity high
cholesterol and high blood glucose
alright this candies conditions
collectively are known as metabolic
syndrome this close association between
high insulin and conditions of metabolic
syndrome suggest or relate a common
mechanism of pathology this just
confuses people it doesn't suggest it it
says there they're unable to connect the
dots effectively they're kind of
switching and putting it all in this
confusion here high insulin has been
shown to play a role in obese
hypertension by increasing sodium
retention no that's that's insignificant
here we go linked to obesity since high
insulin and obesity are so closely
linked it's hard to determine whether
high insulin causes obesity or obesity
causes high insulin or both no it's not
it's pretty easy the fact is when you
actually get fat you you develop insulin
resistance which increases insulin but
you have to get fat initially it was the
high insulin that got you there okay so
obesity is characterized by an excess of
adipose tissue insulin increases the
synthesis of fatty acid from glucose
okay we knew that so basically insulin
turns glucose into fat and it inhibits
the breakdown of fat well good
right there thank you it's just
basically they just said that insulin
makes fat and it prevents the loss of
fat so it causes obesity they're just
they're actually telling you there's a
link you're giving you some confusion
then they actually tell you the truth
right underneath here it says high
insulin may lead to diabetes hello high
cholesterol hypertension because it
makes the arteries stiff coronary heart
disease cardiovascular disease and
weight gain okay we knew that treatment
okay
treatment is typically achieved via diet
and exercise although metformin may be
used to reduce insulin okay alright then
they go to say a low carbohydrate diet
is effective in reducing
hyperinsulinemia Wow
they're actually telling you what to do
lower the carbs thank you very much I've
been waiting for that a healthy diet
that is low in simple sugars and
processed carbohydrates and high in
fiber of course they're gonna get to the
grains shortly and vegetable protein
which by the way there's not a lot of
protein and vegetables there's some but
you comes with a lot of carb it's often
recommended this includes your placing
the white bread with whole-grain bread
here we go well it has near the same
glycemic index okay and I'll tell you
one thing when people eat whole grain
bread there they basically don't eat
whole grain bread they're eating whole
wheat bread okay so go to the grocery
store it's it's very very it's confusing
to people alright so then they say the
reducing intakes of food like starts or
potatoes increasing legumes which have a
bit of carbs in green vegetables
particularly soy so they're basically
want to emphasize soy at the very end
part I wonder why that is well if you
actually look up some data and so I'm
gonna put a link down below
soybean oil induces obesity diabetes
insulin resistance and fatty liver in
mice okay so we'll just have to test it
out if it's true in humans but the point
is that 98% of the soy out there is GM
oh so these people are not stupid I
think they just have to define it like
this because of the food manufacturing
companies and the chemical companies
behind them are really pulling the
strings okay so anyway I just wanted to
let you know that metabolic syndrome is
purely caused by high insulin all right
that's the cause this is the effect
these are the effects it's not
associated it's causing it all right
thanks for watching hey if you're
interested in finding out the underlying
cause of your body issues click the link
below and take the evaluation quints
