but uh lately for the past uh seven or
eight years it's been so difficult to
lose even a pound I lose a pound I gain
2 pounds and uh this diet Dr bur's diet
has been extremely um easy to use I
thought it would be very difficult but I
was just completely wrong and uh I've
lost uh 7 lbs maybe a little bit more I
think in the past 3 weeks I've been on
the diet for three weeks and uh it
hasn't it uh doesn't give me a way to
slip off right good so what's different
um do you think it's important to shift
uh kind of focus more on the health
versus trying to lose weight because
we're trying to just get you healthy was
there anything that in the book that was
like different than the typical programs
out
there um yeah uh because uh it is very
hard to I mean I'm a starch eater and
I'm a vegetarian so it it much it's much
difficult for you to stay on a diet
because most of them concentrate on
protein and without the protein and
without the star you feel very weak and
I think the potassium rich food that uh
that's so good for your health uh and it
kind of keeps you it's a making you
making it possible for you to stay on
the diet because you don't feel tired
before I came in here I last year I was
diagnosed with crohn's after having
suffered for about 10 years um I was
diagnosed with colitis 12 years ago so
for the last several years I haven't
been able to eat any fruits or
vegetables or nuts or anything like that
so apparently my whole system was out of
whack and then since being on this diet
for the last month um everything is I
guess so balanced now that all the
things that I could never eat before I'm
able to so salads and fruits and nuts
and vegetables and all those things that
I couldn't because my digestive system
wouldn't accept it I can eat and I'm
feeling better because I'm the right
things I didn't understand that
balancing out all those adrenals is what
I needed to do so now my Crohn's is in
rition and I take probably about 20
pills a day because of it so I'm hopeful
my plan is to start trying to come off
someone's medication and be feeling well
because I'm well and not because of all
the medication I have to take because I
had so much fat I was grabbing it and
just jiggling it but
anyway and also with the sleeping
I um was getting up during the middle of
the night and I get in really good sleep
so now although I still don't get eight
hours sleep because I don't go to bed
get enough I don't go to bed early
enough I do sleep all the way through I
don't get up and go to the
bathroom um I've had several co-workers
and family friends compliment me on how
much weight I've lost and I tell them
about the program I can't I did get my
sister to come one time and I've been
trying to get people to come but now I
just tell them to look on your
website and hopefully they come down I
said well you know talking to Dr B
really is great because he can give you
some more Enlightenment in terms of your
diet and things you got to do
