today we're going to talk about the 14
earliest signs of nutritional
deficiencies that being said there are a
lot more nutrients and I have a complete
list of all the earliest signs of
specific nutrient deficiencies on our
website and I'll put the link down below
so you can download when we're done but
today we're going to start with these 14
starting with vitamin A what would be
the first sign of a vitamin A deficiency
that would be difficulty seeing in the
dark especially if you're driving at
night and it's raining and you just have
a really hard time seeing in the dark
that is one of the first signs of a
vitamin A deficiency all right now what
about the B complex well I'm only going
to talk about B1 uh in the complete
document you'll learn about all the B
vitamins but the first sign of a B1
deficiency is nervous tension you feel
this buildup of nervous energy that
you're just like you're agitated it's
kind of like you could say a feeling of
some stress buildup and this is why when
you take B1 that just goes right away
within like two to three minutes next
one is Vitamin C what would be the first
sign of that that would be a pink
toothbrush so let's say for example
you're brushing your teeth and you
notice there's some slight bleeding but
maybe not bleeding gums but let's say
your gums are a little swollen or red
that's a vitamin C deficiency and the
foods that are highest in vitamin C raw
sauerkraut bell peppers berries lemons
limes okay what about vitamin D well one
of the First Signs would be bone pain so
you can press on your shins right now or
your breast bone and if
there's pain or excessive tenderness
suspect a vitamin D deficiency one other
symptom that I noticed is that your
lower back is just aching suspect a
vitamin D of course there's a lot of
other symptoms for vitamin D but we're
just talking about one of the first
signs all right what about vitamin E one
of the first signs of a vitamin E
deficiency is weakness in your muscles
if you find that you're climbing up a
stairs and you're just like your legs
are heavier and your muscles are weaker
or it could be any type of let's say
you're doing weight training and your
muscles feel weak suspect a vitamin E
deficiency all right what about K1 well
excessive bruising okay you bruise
easily what about K2 a buildup of tartar
is a vitamin K2 deficiency because
vitamin K2 keeps the calcium out of the
tissues of the body what about calcium
one of the first symptoms of a Calcium
deficiency is uh chronic cough
irritation with your throat but
especially if you have this chronic
coughing that just won't go away um just
take some calcium and Watch What Happens
what about an iodine deficiency well
that can show up in many things but the
first symptom would be breast tenderness
and then that can lead into what's
called fibrocystic breast where you have
the these little cyst just suspect uh
any type of cyst on your body being an
iodine deficiency what about a sodium
deficiency well that typically is going
to be overall weakness not necessarily
in the muscles but it could be but
overall you're just kind of um feeling
weak and you you lost that get up and go
but this deficiency can also affect your
sleep being but there's other things too
which I'm not going to get into but um
it's important to have enough salt
especially if you're doing fasting or on
the ketogenic diet okay what about
magnesium the first symptom of a
magnesium deficiency is a loss of energy
because of magnesium's connection to
making ATP you just don't make energy
anymore but also uh leg cramps okay
especially when you're sleeping and just
since we're talking about magnesium I'm
going to throw one more in there is
potassium deficiency one of the first
symptoms to show up with that would be
when you go to sleep at night and you
hear that pounding in your inner ear
on the pillow very loud you should never
hear that's a potassium deficiency
because you just ate a lot of
carbohydrate that locked up your
potassium and you're G to hear this this
pulse rate in inner ear just take some
pottassium and it will go right away and
also a lack of potassium will start
increasing the pulse rate too so your
pulse rate will still go up all right
the next one is the selenium deficiency
you're GNA notice a bit of brain fog
maybe some memory issues but definitely
a negative cognitive effect and realize
selenium can come from a Brazil nut but
you don't need many just need one per
day also from shellfish Seafood uh
oysters SE calp as well organ Meats red
meats and eggs but selenium is important
in many different things including uh
making uh glutathione which helps you
detox X ify and then we get to zinc
which is a very important Trace mineral
involved in so many different things one
of the first signs of a zinc deficiency
is you become out of breath when you
exert yourself so let's say you start to
exercise and you just don't have the the
strength and the the get up and go you
need some zinc zinc will also create a
lot of other issues especially with
lowering of testosterone as well as a
lowering of your immune system now to
get the complete list on a one-page
document click the link down below and
go to drberg.com
