let's talk about something really
practical when to take your vitamins
should you take them before bed with a
meal on an empty stomach in the morning
now I'm going to discuss this but I will
say I've been known to be wrong about
this topic sometimes I'll tell people to
take vitamins before bed and all of a
sudden it wakes them up on the other
hand I'll tell people to take vitamins
in the morning and it puts them to sleep
now that's rare but it could happen so
you're going to have to test things out
so I'm going to give you some general uh
tips to follow it's not absolute but I
think it could be helpful in and uh just
increasing the absorption and the
effectiveness of these remedies there's
two types of vitamins you have the water
cble and the fat cble vitamins so fat
cble vitamins absorb a little bit better
if you take them with fat so if you took
fat cble vitamins before a meal for
example uh chances are they're going to
be absorbed a little bit better but a
lot of fat cyle vitamins come with their
own fat they come with either MCT oil or
sometimes they'll come with a little
olive oil but not all always but that
being said let's say you're doing
fasting and you're not eating for
several days uh just take the vitamins
whenever you can because you're going to
absorb a good amount but the um taking
some fat with a vitamin just helps the
absorption a little bit better so that
would include vitamin A vitamin D
vitamin E vitamin K1 and K2 now most
people don't take vitamin A but they
take Cloud liver oil to get vitamin A D
and omega-3 fatty acids because all
three of those nutrients can be better
absorbed with oil but here's the thing
cod liver oil is not a vitamin it
contains vitamins in an oil omega-3
fatty acid and so vitamin A and vitamin
D are going to be absorb so you could
realistically take H oil at any point of
the day uh probably not before bed but I
just wanted to emphasize the
relationship between the fat Cy vitamins
and using some fat while absorbing them
first personally I take my CER oil in
the morning when uh when I wake up now
let's talk about some of the exceptions
to things like vitamin D3 uh really
helps most people sleep better so
sometimes I'll take vitamin D right
before bed other times I'll just take it
in the early morning because the vitamin
D that I have already comes with its own
fat as well as the the K2 now Vitamin E
for example I recommend if you're going
to take vitamin A take it in the form of
oat trinal because they just work a lot
better than the tofol and I don't
recommend getting a mixed between the
tokat trinal and the tofol um I would
just recommend getting a tokat trinal
complex and that would be a good one to
take uh with meals now the other thing
you should know is a lot of the
phytonutrients
rotenoids sulfurane
flavonoids are fat sble okay this is why
it's good to have olive oil on your
salad because you're going to extract
ract more of these
phytonutrients so if you're taking a
phytonutrient blend whether it's
cruciferous Blend or or maybe some other
herb with curcumin like you're taking
turmeric which has curcumin in there
might be a good idea to take that with a
meal so you'll extract more of that fat
soluble nutrient from that uh compound
even wheat grass juice powder if you
took that with a meal you may extract a
little bit more of the carotenoids and
other phytonutrients
in that product but for convenience sake
a lot of people take it in the morning
and that's totally fine and then of
course some people take it right before
bed and they tend to sleep better so I'm
just pointing out some general
suggestions that you may want to try but
again there's always lots of exceptions
like some people will forget to take it
or it's not convenient because they are
they're going somewhere and they're
going to be eating and they're not they
don't want to take their vitamins well
just take them in the morning on an
empty stomach it's not a big deal now as
far as uh what else to take right before
a meal uh definitely you want to take
the Bane hydrochloride that's in a lot
of um digestive formulas but Bane
hydrochloride is an acidifier so that's
always to be taken right before a meal
and then also if you're taking enzymes
to help you digest like digestive
enzymes take those before a meal can you
take them after the meal yes you can
even take ban hydrochloride after the
meal um like in Thanksgiving I have a
bottle of ban hydrochloride or my
digestive formula uh on the table and so
I have found that when people overeat
they can take some of that after the
meal and it helps them with digestion so
there's not this hard rule uh that you
have to always take it right before some
people take it right in the middle of
the meal the only time you wouldn't want
to take it is if you have an ulcer or
gastritis because you're going to add an
acid to something that already has too
much acid or something that is um kind
of an open wound now one point about bio
salts they Ox bile or any products with
F like gallbladder formula um you may
see better benefit if you have that
right after the meal why is that because
here you are you are digesting all this
food right and if you actually take um
well this is for some people some people
take this bile salt or bio salt products
before the meal well they may alkalize
their foods to a certain degree and they
might not get the full digestion but if
you you have enough stomach acid it's
not going to make a difference okay this
is mainly for people who don't have
enough stomach acid anytime you take the
bile salts and you feel worse chances
are you need to switch gears and start
adding more um acid to the stomach like
ban hydrochloride to build that up
because that could be one of the reasons
why you're not producing enough bile you
don't have the activator the acidifier
the Bane hydrochloride but general rule
of thumb take the Bane hydrochloride
before the meal and the bio salts after
the meal all right what to take on an
empty stomach there's a really popular
or I think should be more popular uh
product called tutka which is a type of
bile salt a little different than your
typical bile salt but tutka can help
with a lot of different things um I like
to recommend it if someone has bile
sludge and they have kind of like a
backup in the bile duct and they have
like nauseousness or they might have
pain um underneath the right rib cage or
the left rib cage but can use it for
many different things uh for dementia
because it crosses the bloodb brain
barrier you can use it for issues with
the liver like therosis or Scar Tissue
if you have any weird symptoms that are
not responding uh I always recommend
Tuka and it seems to work especially if
it's related to digestion that is a good
one to take an empty stomach and I would
probably recommend anywhere between 1 or
two in the early part of the day and one
or two in the afternoon an empty stomach
if you take them with the meal you may
find that that acts on the fats in the
meal and not on kind of like clearing
out certain type of um like blockages
within the system so um I recommend
taking it on empty stomach about at
least an hour before meal or an hour
after the meal another one is activated
charcoal if you're detoxifying you want
to take that an empty stomach another
one is bentonite clay as something to
absorb toxins individual amino acids so
let's say you're taking tryptophan well
if you take it with the meal it's not
going to work because these other amino
acids from the meal will compete with
tryptophan kind of negates the
effectiveness so take the amino acids on
an empty stomach trace minerals another
good one to take on an empty stomach but
again I take them in the morning which
actually is on empty stomach but I
wouldn't uh not tell you to take it with
a meal it could work nicely but here's
the thing about trace minerals like all
minerals when you have better acid in
the stomach and it's not diluted from a
meal you may get a little bit better
absorption because in order to absorb
minerals and trace minerals you need
that hydrochloric acid in a certain
strength so you'll get a little more
absorption if you take your minerals or
trace minerals on empty stomach where
that acid is just like ready to just to
pull it right in and it's not diluted
with any other types of foods the next
point is what should you take before bed
I typically recommend taking your
calcium before bed if you're going to
take calcium and your magnesium before
bed I don't recommend taking calcium
with your meals because it's an
alkalizer and it can
alkalize uh the acid to some degree so
take that before you go to bed and the
reason you would take it is either for
leg cramps or help sleep like let's say
for example you're tired but your head
is not tired you're like your head is
awake calcium tends to work for that and
there's many other reasons why to take
calcium but typically I don't recommend
people take a lot of calcium uh but here
and there but not on a regular basis
especially even you're postmenopausal
because it can actually increase your
risk of getting heart attacks magnesium
is a good one to take in the evening
right before bed helps relax you it
helps muscle cramps probiotics are
really good to take before you go to bed
so many people especially initially
start to detox or have some type of
immune reaction when they take an a uh
probiotic or even sometimes when they
take
colostrum because it affects immune
system to a certain degree and it may um
create a reaction uh increasing
histamines and make you a little bit
more tired so if you take it before bed
you don't know any difference because
you're sleeping now vitamin D3 it helps
me sleep I find with the majority of
people it will help them sleep but not
everyone some people it will make them
stay up so so you'll have to test the
waters on that but vitamin D is really
important in the Circadian rhythm and it
can help like jet lag and resetting your
clock that controls the Circadian wave
vitamin B1 is a good one to take before
bed as well especially if you're
thinking and analyzing things to death
you take the natural B1 I I recommend
natural B1 before bed not the synthetic
and you will sleep a little bit better
and it also helps decrease stress also
any like detoxifying herbs I have tried
so many different like remedies to detox
myself and um I always recommend taking
them before bed because if they create
that immune reaction what you're going
to notice is you're just going to sleep
better because they create a little bit
of a histamine response and a little bit
of fatigue so herbs that increase
detoxification like dim which is a
precious extract um would be one but
there's many other you know like kidney
detoxifiers or liver detoxifiers take
those at night I would take that more
with um like your lunch or your meal of
the day because it has a lot of the
other phytonutrients but dim being a
concentrated version of the cruciferous
that's more for detoxifying estrogen
that should be taken before bed now as
far as um apple cider vinegar okay if
you want to help your blood sugars in
the morning um you know maybe like an
hour before bed put that in a little bit
of water and drink that down I don't
recommend drinking a lot of water before
bed but to get the appleid of vinegar
down or even to take appleid of vinegar
in a pill form it can help you wake up
with better blood sugars you can even
help your sleep and I've done videos on
that you can also take um alider vinegar
with your meals which I recommend and
also even on an empty stomach with your
water like I I'll take a big glass of
water um probably 20 ounces in the
morning with my apple cider vinegar my
lemon and sometimes I'll add my
electrolyte powder in there and I'll
drink that down with a lot of the
supplements now this is
basically with a meal or without a meal
of course hopefully you're not doing a
meal in the morning so you're fasting
but this is when I would recommend
taking your electrolyte powder uh
because if you take the electrolyte
powder highend potassium before bed you
might be waking up urinating a lot
because it gets rid of excessive fluid
so I like uh the electrolytes in the
morning plus potassium gives you a good
amount of energy that being said it does
help people sleep because it does take a
good amount of energy to help with the
sleep cycles so here I am recommending
in the morning but some people do the
opposite and take it right before bed
and sleep through the night and do fine
and even sometimes people take it right
before they work out they get more
energy you want to take things that give
you energy like early in the day right
like B12 that would be a good one to
take in the morning any type of herbs
that are stimulatory like Jens sing Maca
okay these are things that can increase
energy you take those in the morning so
I just wanted to give you uh some
general tips and rules on vitamins and
minerals and other things when you
should take them all right so now that
you learn that now it's time to learn
the nine foods that contain all of your
fat soluble vitamins right here
