so I want to show you an amazing
technique for shoulder tension um most
people have tension in their upper back
right about here right on the upper
shoulders on left and right area about
here and here and that muscle is called
the levator angula scapula muscle
because it elevates the angle of that
little scapula so it elevates it and
raises it it shrugs the shoulders up so
you have people that come in there and
massage your shoulders right here you
just beat that muscle to death but it
keeps coming back over and over and over
and over and I have videos on doing uh
work on the gallbladder which is down
here to get rid of shoulder pain but
this is another one if it's actual
problem in the neck or shoulder itself
um so you have these two this is looking
at a person from the back you have two
bones in your back they're called
scapula uh bones and they they connect a
lot of the shoulder muscles to to your
neck your back your arms and they allow
the the back part of the shoulder to
move correctly so they're kind of a free
floating bone they're kind of flat and
they rest on top of the ribs some people
can fan them out some people cannot so
you have a lot of ligaments and things
like that so what we're going to do is
we're going to show you how to melt
these two muscles right there and you
don't want to touch them you want to
work on the opposite muscle that pulls
it down and that is on the side of this
little scapula here and here so you're
going to be pressing up into this part
right here at this angle and you'll be
pressing on this one going this way
right here so you can do it about I
don't know about 30 seconds each side
press right in there you can use your
whole hand um but that's where you want
to press to give the most relief right
here so in the next part I'll show you
exactly how to do
it okay so now the scapula is a little
triangle bone right here okay and that
has a little muscle that attaches right
to the corner goes right to your neck
it's called the levator angul scapula
muscle and it raises things up that
thing is always tense on everyone so
what we want to do is we want to stretch
the opposite muscle which is underneath
this border right here so we're going to
take that bone right here with your
thumbs and we're going to press it up
this way so once we press this thing up
this
way and we hold hold the pressure just
like that and it's going to give the
person tremendous relief you could even
do it with the palm of your hand and you
come up this way at this angle right
there and we just want because the it's
a it's a broad contact we press up
there and what's happening it's relaxing
the muscle up there now some people like
me to go upward and bring that thing all
the way up here it's a little difficult
because sometimes this bone is so
attached to the ribs you can't get
underneath it but with this guy you can
get really nicely in there so that's why
I like the side of it so we can come
right in here and press that thing right
in now if we do the other
side we're going to come in this way
and just lean into it with both of your
thumbs and hold that for maybe 30
seconds it's going to create a lot of
relief with the upper shoulders again we
can come up this
way or come in this way right here you
could even
pull this part this way if you want on
top and just stretch that but what we
want to do is take these things right
here push them up relax the shoulders
right here the muscles that go to the
neck okay so go ahead and try that and
then give me a comment below this video
