I'd like to talk about three really
common mistakes that a lot of people
make when they start the ketogenic diet
so when interviewing people who are
either plateaued or they're running into
problems these three things keep coming
up over and over and over again so I'm
going to make it really simple and this
is going to be a fairly quick video but
these are very important points so that
way if you're starting keto you can be
very successful and the first mistake
relates to Fat okay people sometimes
think that a ketogenic diet is just a
high fat diet and that's what makes you
burn
fat and turn it into ketones it's not
true it's not eating more fat eating
more fat is not going to make you more
into ketosis it's the lowering of
carbohydrates now what is an average
person trying to fix when they go on
keto
they're trying to fix
problems with their insulin okay
primarily this thing called insulin
resistance insulin resistance is the
basically the pre stage before diabetes
starts off mild it gets worse worse and
worse until the point where it becomes
Advanced insulin resistance and then you
become a pre-diabetic and a diabetic so
diabetes is Advanced insulin resistance
now let's just take a look at a really
like probably the most important
function of insulin
insulin prevents the loss of fat it's a
survival mechanism
yes it does help you store fat
but it prevents the burning of fat it
also prevents the loss of proteins in
the body like if you think about a
diabetic type one where they have no
more insulin and what happens with them
they're really skinny but what's
confusing to some people is that wow
they're a diabetic they should be fat
now a lot of times when you have type 1
you're very very skinny why because you
have no more insulin to store anything
so everything just tends to just end up
in the blood so you have high levels of
fat in the blood that then don't get
stored you end up with high levels of
sugar and you lose a lot of protein too
so it's a really nasty problem diabetes
type 1. so how does this relate to fat
in order for you to even develop
diabetes in the first place Advanced
insulin resistance or even insulin
resistance there has to First be a
problem in your fat cells or your fat
cells have insulin resistance in other
words there's this dysfunctional fat
cell that can no longer store fat so as
a protective mechanism the the fatso has
to stop that fat from going in so it
develops this resistance against insulin
so we no longer have this storage
mechanism in the fat cell but now where
does that fat go the fat is now going to
be accumulated outside the fat cell okay
that's called ectopic fat it's not in
the adipocyte anymore you're going to
get fatty muscle it's going to be in
your liver it's going to be around the
organs it's going to be inside the
pancreas it's going to be all over the
place that is when you start developing
insulin resistance to a point where then
it switches to diabetes so let's just
take a look at that one point for a
second if you're going to go on keto to
fix insulin resistance and you're a
pre-diabetic or you're diabetic would it
make sense to really stuff yourself with
more fat
that's going to contribute to the
problem so one of the biggest mistakes
on keto is people just do unlimited fat
they do Bulletproof Coffee they're
Downing tons of butter they're doing
keto fat bombs I actually have a recipe
channel that teaches you how to make
these recipes but I do think they serve
one purpose is when you first start keto
and you're making this transition and
you want to make it easy and you eat
more fat to be able to fast longer okay
that's a good reason but after you've
adapted and you're doing good I don't
recommend
continuing to just dump unlimited amount
of fat in your system what you should do
is consume the fat that normally comes
with the protein don't go low fat
don't avoid fat but just don't consume a
lot of extra fat especially if you're
trying to fix insulin resistance and
diabetes so when someone's like
plateaued with their weight and um I'd
ask them what they're eating and then I
find out they're eating like all this
extra fat like I'll have them make that
change and they'll do much better on the
flip side of that there are certain
programs
like Ideal Protein that is protein low
carb and low fat but the problem is the
quality of ingredients are really crappy
they're getting their protein from soy
protein isolates and all that stuff so
that's not necessarily one of the
mistakes I just want to bring that up
you want to use healthy ingredients as
well like real food which relates to the
mistake number two I mean this concept
of Keto snacks
goes completely against what we're
trying to do because
insulin is not just increased by carbs
it's also increased by eating and these
snacks are going to really just raise
your insulin especially if you're buying
all these snacks you're going to be
eating them through the day I mean just
go on Amazon and type keto snacks
there's just everything from keto ice
cream the so-called protein shakes
there's chips there's cookies it just
goes on and on and on and if you read
the label on this they're filled with
things like polydextrose and dextrose
and all these new fibers that haven't
been tested tapioca corn fiber and just
because something says keto does not
even make it keto but the point is that
you don't want to do these snacks I can
see using some of these as dessert
occasionally but I don't do a lot of
these keto snacks and that is a big
reason why people are failing on keto
because they're doing all this keto
snacks and the ingredients are not even
keto especially when you get into the
Atkins type so-called keto friendly
foods and then you have slim fast but if
you see ingredients like maltitol I mean
that's just like almost the same as
sugar and I have found just by cutting
out the keto snacks that people do very
well just eat real food don't make your
meal
a bar like a keto bar even if they're
the correct macros because it's just not
real food all right number three hidden
carbohydrates okay and a big one is this
maltodextrin it's even in your
supplements it's in the the electrolyte
powders I've done a video on that and I
think another big thing is too many
berries and fruit
I've had people say well well fruit has
fructose fruit has half fructose and
half glucose so yes fructose is low on
the glycemic index but your liver is the
only organ that can handle fructose and
it is going to create a major problem
with insulin resistance so even though
it's low in the glycemic index it's
still a big problem and out of all the
things that are very high in fructose
agave nectar is right at the top and if
you look at Galva nectar in some
products it says oh yeah it's keto
friendly because it's low in the
glycemic index well that's just like
saying like pizza is good because it has
Tomatoes well it has other things as
well now there's a really good Kindle
book that I recently got I didn't finish
it so I can't say that I agree with
every single point yet but it's called
don't eat for the winter
and what I like about it it's written by
an engineer okay so Engineers are good
problem solvers they think logically and
this book is so far really interesting
because the author mentions like an
acorn a squirrel would start to
accumulate all these acorns right and
they're gonna eat those through the
winter now an acorn is like 53 fat it's
41 carb and it's like six percent
protein a very similar profile to junk
food and when you combine that much carb
with that much fat well you're going to
create a lot of storage of fat and he
also mentions another uh interesting
point about you know when do we Harvest
uh fruits okay like apples pears peaches
all this fruit is mainly harvested in
September October maybe early November
it's very unnatural to harvest fruit all
year round that fruit Which is higher in
fructose tends to act as a survival
mechanism so you can survive through the
winter but of course we have fruit
available every single day of the year
so you can very easily overdo the fruit
especially if you add it with fat our
body and our genes have not evolved to
handle that much fructose so to
summarize number one
don't overdo it with the fat consume the
fat that normally comes with protein and
also realize when you're drinking all
this fat it's not all being oxidized as
fat burning a lot of it can be stored as
well and as I'm thinking about this is
actually a fourth one that I want to
bring up I mentioned this uh in another
video now typically the ketogenic diet
should be a moderate amount of protein
and it definitely should be bioavailable
complete protein so if you're doing the
ketogenic diet
with plant-based protein or just not
enough bioavailable protein that's going
to tell the brain to keep eating so out
of all the macronutrients carbs protein
fat
protein is the most valuable to the body
because we don't store it and there's so
many different functions that are
dependent on this protein so this really
relates to when you start doing more
intermittent fasting and prolonged
fasting if you're deficient in amino
acids going into a prolonged fast you're
just not going to feel good and so for
some people that don't feel good it
wouldn't hurt to take a blend of
complete amino acids just to fortify the
body now to get more information on the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
I put that video up right here check it
out
