so what would actually happen to your
body if you actually gave up sugar for
two short weeks and I know a lot of
people would tell you that the trend for
eating sugar is a lot less than it was
before and so how can that account for
all of our health problems well you're
about to find out let's first dive into
the benefits of what would happen after
just two weeks of not eating sugar the
first thing you would notice is your
face would be less round okay less puffy
I used to have kind of a puffy roundish
face now it's not a full-blown moon face
but it was definitely rounder and it
wasn't as thin as it is now so the shape
of your face will change because you're
going to have less fat in your face
number two you're going to notice less
puffy eyelids you can always identify
how much sugar someone's consuming by
looking at how puffy their eyelids are
in fact I had puffy eyelids for many
years I didn't know what it was but
after I get rid of the sugar that
puffiness went away number three your
midsection your belly fat will reduce
too much sugar converts to excess liver
fat which then spills over into your gut
the fat around the organs giving you
belly fat so belly fat is a really good
indication that you're eating too many
carbs number four your cravings for
carbs will go down to zero you just will
not want carbs anymore but even a little
bit of sugar here and there will keep
that craving persisting to the point
where it's going to be really hard to
give it up this next one number five
your hunger is going to go way down
you're not going to be hungry all all
the time you're going to feel satisfied
which is going to be huge if you want to
stick to any type of plan it's torturous
to Crave things and be hungry all the
time when you're trying to lose weight
so sugar increases insulin and Insulin
makes you hungry the next one is your
mood is going to greatly improve if you
were depressed before if you had anxiety
before you're probably going to be a lot
calmer you're going to feel more up I
remember getting a success story from
this gentleman who was very very
depressed to the point of suicide in
fact he wanted to kill himself so he
locked himself in his room and he
stopped eating uh everything so he was
doing a fast and of course when you're
fasting you're not eating any sugar and
your body is in the ketosis and so by
the third day he felt wonderful his
depression went away and so intermitted
fasting or fasting and lowering your
carbs uh create a similar effect number
seven your attention will be much much
better I remember when I was on a high
carb diet boy did I have brain fog I had
no idea that it was coming from all the
sugar I didn't make the connection until
one day I decided to give up the sugar
and it was like someone took this brain
fog helmet off my head and I finally
actually can think number eight your
fluid retention will go away I used to
have it I can press my finger into my
ankles and it would leave a dent that's
pitting edema I had that I had no idea
that was all the sugar that I was
consuming sugar retains fluid and this
Rel relates to the next Point as well
your eyes are going to improve your
kidneys will improve your arteries will
improve and your nerves will get better
because those are the four tissues that
higher amounts of sugar will affect and
when it comes down to the eye you can
gain more fluid into the eye increasing
your risk for glucoma when you have high
amounts of sugar in your blood because
think about this if you have this
concentrated sugar in your blood well it
pushes off into other fluids like in
your eye as as well as in your lens of
the eye which can lead to cataracts
number nine your pain and your
inflammation will go down considerably
boy it's not until you reduce your
sugars that you'll realize how much of
that was contributing to either
arthritis or inflammation or pain in
your body until you eventually give it
up and you're going to be amazed how
much less inflammation you have in your
body number 10 you're bloating your
abdominal pain will go down but I had
years of bloating and gallbladder
problems and abdominal pain from eating
so much sugar number 11 your sleep will
be much better I remember one time uh
when I had really bad sleeping problems
when I was consuming a lot of carbs what
did I do to solve it ate more carbs in
fact I would consume I'm not kidding a
pint of Ben and& Jerry's ice cream
before bed just to have like a just
sugar coma so I can literally go to
sleep little did I know that made things
worse I started having uh restless leg
syndrome wake up in the middle of the
night I'd have to go run to get this
energy out because I had all this energy
that was lactic acid coming from the
buildup of all the sugar that was not
being burned properly in my mitochondria
the energy factories of my cell number
12 you're going to feel really calm your
adrenal stress that you might have will
be much better and if you have kids
you're going to notice that their
demeanor is going to be better they're
going to be able to sit for longer
periods of time I mean think about how
many kids are are just wired on sugar
they're so restless and one of the
reasons is because all this sugar
depletes you of B1 which will give you
the symptom of nervous tension if you
want to see a really dramatic effect if
someone has nervous tension or just
built up of stress just give them some
B1 and watch within 3 minutes they're
just going to feel nice and calm number
13 you're going to notice your skin is
going to be much much better not just
improving acne but also dry skin
excessive oily skin the overall color
and tone of your skin is going to be
much healthier so those are some of the
benefits but check this out I don't know
if you've ever heard this before there
is something in the majority of the
population's diet that is creating a
sugar like effect it's something that's
not sugar but it acts like sugar but it
not just acts like sugar it acts worse
than sugar and we're talking about
refined
starches in certain food products if you
want to call it that they're basically
classified under ultr processed foods
AKA junk Foods let's take a look
at used to be my favorite right so if we
look at the ingredients this has dried
potatoes vegetable oil okay could be
cotton seed corn or soy or
sunflower and then it has corn flour
okay corn starch rice flour Malto
dextrin so all of those are refined
starches so in other words
maltodextrin modified corn starch
modified food starch dextrin basically
are not sugars but they have a huge
effect on your blood sugars multidex has
an effect on the glycemic index between
110 and
136 I mean glucose is 100 table sugar is
65 so you can see it's like
way worse than sugar but it's not really
a sugar if we take a look at the total
carbohydrates it's 16 16 gram the total
sugars zero zero sugars so you might be
saying wow that's great it's no sugar
it's just carbohydrate but this is going
to turn into the sugar so fast and raise
your blood sugars so this 16 grams
really is four tpoon of sugar and that
uh is just 1 F of this okay so it's it's
like a it's probably a stack of those
chips about this big right here has four
teaspoons of sugar you can imagine if
you consume the whole thing which I used
to do without any hesitation that you're
dumping a lot of sugar into your body
but it's not listed as sugar so when I
talk about getting rid of these sugars
for two weeks I'm talking about also the
starches but I want to show you one last
thing okay it's with this s right here
used to be one of my favorites right
Fruity Pebbles
okay and I want to show you how much
sugar that's in here first starting with
the actual sugar itself okay the sugar
that's labeled there one cup of Fruity
Pebbles okay that's about 4.5 but if we
had the starches that turn into sugar
because they're really sugars in reality
because they create a much more damaging
effect we have to add four more
teaspoons okay actually five more
teaspoons so that gives us a total of
nine teaspoons per cup all right so you
can see that this is a this is a lot of
sugar for one cup right who consumed
just one cup an average child or adult
is going to consume probably four cups
per breakfast right so now we're talking
about 36 teaspoons so let's go ahead and
add that okay I'm not even at 36 I think
you get the point that's a lot of sugar
for your breakfast I found this one
right here it's called the granola
Bakery keto granola cinnamon cnon peon
now check out the ingredients of this
peans almonds dried coconut sunflower
seeds pumpkin seeds CH root fiber arrol
coconut cream coconut oil cinnamon monk
fruit juice concentrate that's not a lot
of Sugar by the way vanilla extract in
sea salt this is like one gram of sugar
now it does have eight grams of carbs
but it has 5 G of fiber so if you deduct
that that is a 3 G Net carb with 1 gr of
sugar and this is not alter processed
food so it's not going to turn into
sugar really fast we're talking like one
gram of sugar if we compare that to this
one right here one serving size
150 calories roughly this is like 36 G
of stuff that turns into the sugar this
is 1 gam so let's see 36 to 1 let's see
which one I'm going to pick here now if
you'd like to find out exactly what diet
you should do to make this easy I put a
link down below so you can download the
plan get started and start experiencing
the massive benefits of avoiding sugar
