let's talk about the real cause and cure
for your dandruff I'm going to talk
about what it is the current treatment
for it and what's really behind dandruff
as well as a really good solution how
about that what is dandruff very simply
it's scaly flaky scalp okay you have the
layers of skin in the scalp that are
flaking off
prematurely normally there's a about a
month cycle where the skin cells in your
scalp develop and then Slough off with
dandruff they're sluffing
off every week okay seven days instead
of a whole month okay so we'll talk
about why that is but very simply if you
ask anyone what dandruff is um they'll
probably show you these little flaking
skin cells on their shoulders and this
is why the number one treatment for it
is Head and Shoulders which they're
using a certain chemical zinc
perome
zpt which is an antifungal okay and it's
also antibacterial so it will kill
microbes in your scalp and it does get
rid of dandruff at least temporarily now
the problem with this treatment is that
it's banned in Europe because apparently
it does cause some toxicity to the
reproductive organs okay like all
chemicals and medications there's always
different side effects there is a a
certain fungus that they isolated being
behind this whole problem and that
microbe is called malesia it is a fungus
that has gone Rogue all right it's part
of our normal flora that we have on our
skin and it's really the overgrowth and
how this fungus morphs into a kind of a
pathogenic microb when the condition or
environment changes okay like all
microbes um they live in communities and
there's a lot of different
diversification of microbes that are
inside our body and on our skin and when
we have this
imbalance we get um certain microbes
that change their form and they do weird
things and they also cause our own
immune system to react with certain
defenses and there's inflammation that
occurs and collateral damage so at the
very root of dandruff there's really an
imbalance in the microflora on your
scalp where we have a kind of a morphed
fungus that is no longer friendly so
it's creating an immune reaction and
what people don't realize is that you
have not just friendly bacteria you have
friendly yeast you have friendly fungus
on your body and inside that is helping
you okay just like the soil you don't
just have friendly bacteria you also
have friendly yeast and fungus that
without that yeast or fungus the plants
can't dig their roots and absorb the
nutrients as well so the fungus is just
as important as the bacteria in doing
its job without the fungus in the soil
they can't uh dissolve the minerals to
really pull it in and allow the roots to
absorb it into the plant and apparently
this fungus that grows on your scalp um
eats lipids okay it eats fats it eats
the sebum which is the oil that comes
from the oil gland
around the fules around your hair fules
but what's interesting about this fungus
is it doesn't like all the fats okay it
only likes the saturated fats it likes
to eat triglycerides it doesn't like to
eat the omega-6 fatty acids and that's
very interesting because the omega-6
fatty acids are the inflammatory acids
so personally I wouldn't eat the omega-6
I would definitely eat the saturated
fats but not the Omega 6 because these
are the inflammatory uh typee fats which
has been linked to inflammation which is
exactly what's happening on your scalp
is just the tip of the iceberg and
what's really going on it's happening in
your gut Flora now obviously if you
affect the gut you affect the skin you
affect a lot of other things but an
isolated symptom of dandruff uh on your
scalp there's probably a lot of other
things going on for example um there's a
huge correlation between people
developing dandruff
and just after they had some type of
antibiotic right so you're taking this
antibiotic internally it's killing off
your microf in your gut and then you're
ending up with a systemic problem on
your skin the same thing happens when
you take an antibiotic right you kill
off the bacteria and you end up with a
yeast infection which can happen in your
mouth I mean just because you affect one
part of the body doesn't mean that it
can't uh be systemic and start invading
other parts of your body
we do know this antibiotic kills only
bacteria it doesn't kill viruses it
doesn't kill fungus or yeast and this is
why it's very important to understand
the microbiome you have a lot of
different types of microbes growing in
your gut and on your skin and you have
to understand that certain microbes like
bacteria keep the fungus in check keep
the yeast in check and if you wipe out
the bacteria
then the yeast and fungus can grow at a
very very high rate what do you think
would be a good solution to dandruff
well why don't we just add the bacteria
back in to the skin okay that sounds
pretty good right and just so you know
um the solutions that I'm coming up with
I found while searching patents for
natural remedies to dandruff which is
actually quite fascinating and I'll put
those links down below I get get so much
great data uh from patents because when
someone puts a patent out they give you
all this amazing research first so it
helps to consolidate a lot of data that
I probably wouldn't find if I'm just
doing searches on Google so the first
remedy that I'm going to recommend and
there's quite a few different things you
can do for dandruff but it is to put
back in the microflora to keep this
fungus in check and I'm going to
recommend you get that micro from kimchi
okay now you're going to be using just
the juice of it the fluid not the actual
you know the Cabbage or anything like
that you get one teaspoon and you mix it
in some water okay and when you take
your shower okay you use your shampoo
whatever right when you get done you can
topically put this diluted solution into
your scalp you rub it into your scalp
and you wait for 15 minutes you go back
into the shower or the sink and rinse it
out what you're doing is just putting a
probiotic back into your scalp there's a
lot of other things you can do there's
other options okay I'll just tell you a
few um two teaspoons of olive oil with a
half a teaspoon of coconut oil which has
lauric acid which is really good as an
antifungal you can rub that into your
scalp before you go to bed then you wake
up take a shower and then you can just
clean your hair but the point is there
are other things other than just putting
this probiotic back into your your scalp
you can use a diluted tea tree oil
diluted garlic oil you can use diluted
oregano oil there's so many different
things you can use as a natural
antibiotic without the side effects now
the next thing I'm going to recommend is
to really fix your diet because I really
believe that if you don't fix your diet
this dander probably just going to keep
coming back because it's coming from an
imbalance in your gut and one thing
about yeast or fungus okay or
candida those microorganisms love sugar
they are carboholics I mean think about
fermentation okay making alcohol vinegar
um yogurt all these fermentation type
processes what are they fermenting
they're fermenting carbohydrates sugar
guess what type of diet you should be on
low carb no sugar diet okay and then of
course do the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet which is uh low omega-6
fatty acids so I would avoid the soy oil
the canola the corn oils which are very
inflammatory there are a lot of people
who get on the ketogenic diet and their
dandruff goes away without even doing
anything else so you should know that I
would also start eating foods that have
probiotics sauerkraut
kimchi kefir are just a few number three
change your shampoo if you're using a
typical shampoo and a conditioner if you
read the back of the label there's a lot
of different chemicals and a lot of
these chemicals are
antimicrobial so it's very similar into
putting insecticides pesticides
herbicides into the soil it's going to
disrupt the microbiome well the same
thing that's going to happen when you
start putting these chemicals on your
hair not to mention some people use a
lot of hairspray they use chemicals with
dyes they use uh their hair dryer with
high Heats all these things affect the
microbiome of your scalp so if you find
a shampoo and conditioner that's clean
that doesn't have chemicals and if you
want a a good one I will put a link down
below but this is just something that
people uh need to be aware of and number
four get a shower filter that filters
out at least chlorine and maybe even
fluoride chlorine and tap water City
water and fluoride are very very
irritating to your microbes on your
surface of your skin and when you get a
good shower filter you may find that
your skin not just on your scalp
improves but the rest of your skin and
your face it might find an improv in
your acne you might find that just the
overall tone of your skin is much much
better now the next most important video
for you to watch would be the one that I
did on acne okay relating to this topic
check this out I put it up right here
