today I'm going to share with you the
absolute fastest way to lose your belly
now you could have the best willpower
the best discipline really want it
really bad and never really see any
results because you're missing the
technique you're missing the strategy
I'm the perfect example I took guitar
lessons for six years right as a
teenager and I never really progressed
or never really went anywhere because
the techniques that were taught to me
were just not that great great the same
thing happened with tennis in college I
was never taught the right technique and
so I would use force and I would keep
practicing but practice incorrectly
never went anywhere and this really
applies with weight loss too because if
you have the right way of doing
something you don't have to put so much
effort into it so what I'm going to show
you is the fastest way to achieve your
goal number one when you do the
ketogenic diet it's not differentiated
what type of fats you should be eating
in other words keto is really about low
carb you assume it's high fat but
there's certain ketogenic diets that are
actually lowfat like Ideal Protein for
example and others are very high in fat
but in this first tip we're going to
talk about the type of fats this is so
so important because I've done a deep
dive into chronic disease and chronic
obesity and as you know obesity keeps
going higher and higher and higher and
higher there's really only one thing
that I know that perfectly parallels
this rise and obesity it's actually seed
oils Omega six fatty acids I'm talking
about the rise of corn oil the soy oil
the cotton seed the canola the safflower
oil the sunflower oils all the omega-6
highly processed Ultra processed highly
inflammatory oils and by the way as a
side note it's very very unnatural to
consume this concentrated refined oil
from seeds and it's hidden in your
dressing that you use on your salad
you're going to get it in fast food
restaurants in fact you're probably
going to get it with any restaurant that
you go to also it's in animal feeds and
if they feed the chicken this grain
omega-6 fatty acids you're going to get
a profile that's pretty high in Omega 6
this also includes eggs okay eggs might
be high in the Omega 6 this also
includes pork this also includes
grain-fed beef now why is this so
important because I have data which I'm
going to do a separate video on this
that shows that consuming these oils
will produce more weight gain than sugar
if we look at this massive trend of
obesity the only thing that parallels it
is seed oils so it would just make sense
to avoid those if you want to lose
weight and so this also relates to the
type of protein that you should be
eating grass-fed grassfish beef and wild
caught fish fish that's tip number one
very important all right so number two
consume a very large salad one a day
unless you have got inflammation in
which case you would either do fermented
vegetables in the form of sauerkraut or
kimchi or eliminate the vegetables all
together now why would I even recommend
a salad I mean what's that going to do
yes it does have some nutrients
potassium magnesium folate vitamin C
a lot of different
phytonutrients but if you get salad
that's grown on living soil you're going
to get a really good
probiotic that's right there's microbes
in this raw salad that can help fortify
your gut plus the fiber can actually
feed your microbiome so one huge benefit
of consuming salads is to help your
microbiome as far as the diversity and
the quantity of microbes in your gut
which Direct ly help you lose weight the
microbiome in an obese person versus
someone who's thin is completely
different and of course what you're
going to put on a salad is not going to
be seed oils you're going to put extra
virgin olive oil and you can also use uh
bomic vinegarette and other things as
well and the cool thing about salads is
that you don't have to count the cars
because they're so tiny all right number
three we want to produce some really
deep ketosis so when you test yourself
for ketones on a blood test there's a
certain reading that can tell you
how deep or how much ketosis you're in
just by getting on a ketogenic diet is
not going to do it alone there's two
other things you have to do one is
called intermittent fasting okay now I
have a lot of videos on this but very
simply I'm going to recommend you do one
meal per day and this will give you 23
hours of fasting so not only is this
going to be very powerful into causing
your body to adapt to running on fat all
day long but you'll have so many other
benefits cognitive Improvement
uh mood changes um reduction of
inflammation and by the way when you get
off the seed oils you're reducing
inflammation way way down you have to
realize that inflammation from seed oils
triggers insulin resistance it destroys
your metabolism it makes things slower
so doing the intermittent fasting okay
you're actually correcting insulin
resistance with the help of the lowering
of carbs with the change in the type of
fat that you're consuming so all of
these things compounded together are
going to get you to your goal extremely
fast and we need
exercise now the type of exercise I'm
going to recommend and is to do a
combination of walking and
high-intensity interval training I'm
going to recommend you do walking every
single day uh for a couple different
reasons number one it's going to help
with weight loss but number two it's
going to actually help with stress
reduction and it's going to help you
sleep and sleep is going to be very
important to not just reduce cortisol
but to help enhance growth hormone which
is highest when you're sleeping that's
the main fat burning hormone and people
that don't sleep I mean that's like a
big barrier to losing weight you're not
going to lose weight if you can't sleep
and you can't recover I had a patient
who came in that was trying to lose
weight right they did exercise I'm
talking like I think it was two hours of
exercise might have been three times a
week for an entire year and she lost
like one or two pounds the entire year
it was because she wasn't sleeping cuz
all I did is correct her sleep and Bam
she lost weight another person came in
uh they were exercising six hours a day
I'm not kidding obsessed with exercising
wasn't sleeping didn't lose any weight
we helped her sleep she started losing
weight so we want the walking to help
with the stress reduction to help you
sleep but we also want the
high-intensity exercise because the
intensity is what really activates
certain hormones that are related to fat
burning and so the more intense the
better of course work up to it make sure
you don't hurt yourself but I just
wanted to give you the technique and the
concept it must be intense um you want
to use as many muscles as you can but we
want to do short high intense workouts
that involve multiple muscles and make
sure you don't overdo it in other words
the frequency of this high-intensity
interval training should be between one
to three times a week depending on how
old you are and how good your recovery
is I've worked with people in the past
that I've just reduced the frequency of
exercising per week and that was a thing
that helped them working out less go
figure they were overtraining the keto
diet that you want to do is a moderate
amount of protein but the key is the
quality of proteins and also you can mix
in there's some organ Meats too for the
nutrition the nutrient dense aspect of
this
we want to make sure that you also do
electrolytes B vitamins maybe from
nutritional yeast and don't forget sea
salt because a lot of people don't have
enough sea salt and they end up feeling
tired and they haven't made the
connection that that is what's causing
the fatigue you need enough sea salt
especially on this program because
you're going to be losing a lot of water
weight and we want to be able to hold
the water with more salt and the other
point about that is if you're having
problems sleeping because your adrenals
are kind of overactive what's that means
is you need more salt more salt can help
you sleep at night but the way that you
know that you're adapting is your hunger
goes away if you're doing this right
you're burning your fat and you're
rarely hungry so this means that you may
even go longer than 1 meal a day with
your fasting if you have a lot of weight
to lose and also I mentioned this keto
adaptation but you also have fat
adaptation this is a little little bit
different this is a point where your
metabolism is becoming very very uh
flexible in that you can adapt to
burning fat very quickly because your
mitochondria is becoming healthier and
that usually takes a minimum of 3 months
but for a lot of people that have had
insulin resistance for many years it
could take a lot longer the goal is to
get you to the point where you're so
healthy and you have so much flexibility
within your metabolism that you could
afford to go off the program you could
afford to eat more carbs and they're not
going to affect you but remember a
principle I've talked about before if
you haven't seen my videos this might be
a New Concept but it's not about losing
weight to get healthy it's about getting
healthy to lose weight so now that you
have this plan of action you have better
technique but I think we need to fill in
the blank with some details and for that
information you must watch this video
right
here
