hi guys in this video I want to answer
the question does lemon juice really
have vitamin C or a significant amount
of vitamin C because if you look at the
back the label on these lemon juice
bottles it's only 8 percent per ounce
that's like 4.8 milligrams when your our
days are 70 so it's a fraction of the
amount you would have to consume like 9
ounces of lemon juice to get your rdas
for the day so that's that's a lot of
lemon juice okay
but the point is that vitamin C is very
sensitive to heat and oxygen so when you
buy bottled lemon juice there
pasteurizing it they're heating it and
they're exposing it to oxygen so you're
gonna lose the bottom and see overtime
so years ago when the sailors would sail
across the continent they would many
times get something called scurvy
weather gums would be bleeding their
collagen would fall apart really serious
fatigue and they eventually found that
they can use limes to give them the
vitamin C to prevent that and then they
use onions and then they use cabbage so
limes and lemon have pretty much the
same nutritional content as far as
vitamin C but they didn't pasteurize it
they didn't bottle it so when you add
heat you destroy the vitamin C so are
there benefits from a lemon juice yes
there are citric acid okay that's gonna
prevent kidney stones that's why we're
using it on the ketogenic diet the other
thing that you get is a lot of different
minerals
okay there's certain phytonutrients that
are still preserved but as far as
vitamin C and get your vitamin C from
either raw lemons or limes or vegetables
alright thanks for watching hey thank
you so much for watching keep spreading
the word and share this video
