hey Dr Burke here in this short video
we're going to talk about the
relationship between adrenal fatigue and
menopause um if you're getting in your
late 40s or you just got into 50s and
usually the magic um age is 52 but it
can happen earlier or later uh you may
find that you have a lot of changes
internally in your body because during
menopause what happens we have a
transition of the ovaries shutting down
and not working as much they never
completely turn off but they kind of go
down and then the adrenal gland actually
acts as a backup because it produces
very similar hormones but if the adrenal
gland is tired or weak or fatigued going
into the menopause you're going to
notice several things happening to your
body number one more belly fat number
two a loss of collagen that's the skin
that's the hair that's the nails that's
the the kind of the tone of the skin you
might just feel like you're getting old
faster uh your mood will be affected why
because all of those hormones are strain
like serotonin the anti-anxiety uh
hormones that are in the adrenal and um
then you have your sleep patterns are
off too not to mention hot flashes night
sweats and all those other fun things
but these are some of the things that
happen and if you're noticing those
menopausal symptoms it's purely because
your adrenal gland is the weak link and
it's not able to do the work of the
ovaries so there are some things you can
do um I like to support the gland I use
the product uh it's called adrenal
fatigue formula I recommend taking one
of these before bed it has recovery
nutrients it helps to support the gland
itself so it can build up the strength
of that gland and help reduce some of
these symptoms so that would be um kind
of the basics of what happens at
menopause and the culprit it's this
adrenal that is the problem uh in under
most most situations with menopause so I
will see you in the next video
