hey guys I want to talk about the
relationship between your glycogen
stores and your electrolytes when you're
doing the ketogenic diet and in a minute
fasting let's start off with what is
glycogen glycogen is a series of glucose
molecules hooked together linked
together as a group okay it's stored
carbohydrate it's kind of like a similar
to a starch where there's a bunch of
sugar molecules stuck together the same
thing with your body you have this
stored in your liver and your muscles
it's just a stored form of sugar okay in
order to store this you need potassium
too so that's we'll come back to that in
a second now when you're actually doing
higher carbohydrates you have a higher
amount of the glycogen Reserve now some
people that have more muscle mass that
workout that do higher carbohydrates
hold even more anyway when you have more
glycogen you're gonna hold more water
you can kind of look at it like a sponge
okay and then when you do the keto okay
low-carb and then the fasting you drop
insulin this goes away
I mean this this shrinks down
considerably not a hundred percent but
it goes way down so guess what there
goes the water and also there goes some
of the electrolytes and this is where
you may have symptoms in transitioning
from sugar burning to fat burning
especially if you don't have those in
the reserves sitting there and if you're
not consuming enough vegetables enough
sea salt for the electrolytes so when
you deplete these minerals okay like
sodium you could feel like your muscles
are weaker okay you just like you're
working out you don't have the strength
you get Quito flu you get dizzy because
the volume of fluid is not there because
you don't have the sodium so you don't
have the water so you have basically low
blood pressure so if you stand up too
fast you get a little dizzy okay so you
need to increase more sodium salt sea
salt and definitely gonna have a little
blood pressure there now also if you
have low potassium you can be fatigued
you can have
heart arrhythmia problems sleeping
problems because potassium helps you
sleep potassium is needed to create
energy and also to make you feel calm
when you're sleeping it's also necessary
to make stomach acids as well without
potassium you can have a higher pulse
rate calcium is low that you can notice
that in your calves you have cramping in
the calves
it could be calcium or magnesium
possibly potassium and maybe sometimes
sodium but mainly calcium or magnesium
so if you're low in magnesium your
sleeping is going to be off that's why
they have a lot of supplements with
magnesium for sleep and then the heart
rhythm is not going to be that great too
because this is a key for the rhythm of
the heart okay so and there's a lot of
other symptoms as well so when you're
doing keto you're gonna need more
electrolytes usually and more vegetables
and you're gonna need probably a little
bit more water because when you consume
more salt you're going to be a little
bit thirsty a lot of you are taking this
right here electrolyte powder now if
you're an athlete or you're working
outside a lot and you're sweating okay
and you're losing more salt you're gonna
have to add more sea salt to this
because I didn't put a lot of sodium in
here because most people have enough
sodium what they don't have is enough
potassium this has a thousand milligrams
of potassium citrate per serving size so
it has a lot of the other electrolytes
but not this right here so again an
average person needs this because
they're usually deficient in these other
minerals but if you're also an athlete
or you sweat a lot then you would need
this plus more sea salt and you're going
to be good alright thanks for watching
so I hope you're coming to the keto
Health Summit coming up in October so I
want to quickly comment on what we're
gonna do that's different from other
conventions okay the problem with these
other conventions is they give you
information over a load okay it's so
much data that you're basically swimming
in a sea of information we're going to
do things very differently we're only
going to cover the most important things
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away
and number two I'm going to show you how
to increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
