we all know how important vitamin D is
but it's also incredibly confusing to
know amounts that you need and does the
amount of vitamin D in your blood really
tell you what's going on in the cells
now when you get your blood test done
with vitamin D some references give you
this normal range between 20 to 40
nanograms per milliliter other
references are between 30 and 50
nanograms per milliliter and of course
if you're in a different part of the
world there's different values so for
example if you have 50 nanograms per
milliliter that would be 125 Nano moles
per liter so as you can see it's very
very confusing and especially if you
take vitamin D which is in a different
measurement altogether which is an
international units even that's very
confusing because when we talk about
vitamin D3 one international unit equals
.025 microgram
and we talk about other things like
beta-carotene or retinol it's in a
completely different system it doesn't
equal what I just mentioned so it's very
confusing even the rdas for vitamin D
for someone that's under 70 years old is
600 IUS okay which is 15 micrograms and
the studies that validate that amount
which is extremely low were done years
ago designed to prevent rickets but that
was way before all this new information
on how Vitamin D supports the immune
system and so many other biological
systems so checking your vitamin D
levels in the blood is is all fine and
that's that's great but
the most important thing about vitamin D
is does it reach this cell
and it reaches the cell through the
vitamin D receptor and unfortunately you
cannot use
the blood levels of vitamin D to
determine what's going on in your cell
simply because there's so many problems
with the vitamin D receptor certain
viruses and other pathogens have a
mechanism a survival mechanism of
blocking your vitamin D receptor for
their survival because they know if that
vitamin D goes into that cell they're
toast also certain cancers have a
survival mechanism of downgrading the
vitamin D receptor to make sure you
don't get enough because of this huge
association between vitamin D and the
reduction of cancer risk I mean if you
think about even in a benign tumor you
get like a 93 absorption with that
vitamin D receptor but in a malignant
cancer the vitamin D receptor now goes
from 93 down to 56 absorption so you can
see that cancer cell tends to block the
absorption of vitamin D and about 30 of
the population has a genetic problem
with the vitamin D receptor including
myself so normal amounts of vitamin D do
not make the changes that I need so what
do we do how do we solve this problem
well number one might be a good idea to
get a genetic test to measure your
vitamin D receptor but there's some
other simple things you can do does
vitamin D receptor diseases and problems
run in your family or do you have a
problem with those and I'm going to list
them right now but there are so many
diseases and health related conditions
that are directly related to a problem
with the vitamin D receptor so let me
just go to the list right now autoimmune
diseases and this includes Ms lupus
rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis
Hashimoto's Ankylosing Spondylitis the
next category certain types of cancer
especially breast cancer and colon
cancer you just have to realize how
important vitamin D is for so many
things including every aspect of your
immune system that bites off cancer
normally the immune cells are supposed
to kill cancer if they haven't enough
vitamin D but not if they don't have
enough vitamin D certain cardiovascular
diseases are related to a problem with
the vitamin D receptor certain cognitive
diseases including Alzheimer's
Parkinson's are associated with a
problem with the vitamin D receptor and
we have diabetes type 1 and type 2 and
type 1 is an autoimmune disease so that
would definitely fit into that vitamin D
problem next one is metabolic syndrome
which includes high blood pressure lipid
problems high blood glucose or diabetes
next one is TB okay
tuberculosis which is a huge problem
with the vitamin D receptor in fact
years ago some of the earlier treatments
for TB was just getting out in the sun
and that would greatly help TB because
of the production of vitamin D and if
you ever have the choice between getting
your vitamin D from a pill form versus
the sun you'd be better to get it from
the Sun okay that would be the ideal
situation if you can get vitamini from
the Sun so we have TB we also have
certain viruses parasites some bacteria
Lyme's disease definitely associated
with a vitamin D receptor issue hair
loss Crohn's other types of GI
inflammation issues because what you
have to remember is that vitamin D is
probably one of the best natural
anti-inflammatories and then we get
respiratory infections huge association
with a vitamin D receptor probably
because there's certain viruses involved
that tend to hijack the vitamin D
receptor and then we get asthma if a
child has asthma and you get them to be
outside in the fresh air and the sun boy
their rate of getting asthma just goes
way down food allergies okay the more
food allergies you have the more
problems you have with the vitamin D
receptor and then we get a really common
thing low back pain definitely
associated with the vitamin D Vitiligo a
situation where you have a lack of
pigment in certain places in your body
then you have osteoporosis COPD which is
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
and then even PTSD is associated with
low vitamin D probably because vitamin D
greatly helps depression all right so
beyond checking your blood which is good
to do but if you still have problems
you're probably going to benefit from
taking more vitamin D so number one take
more vitamin D it's that simple and you
might need 20 30 40 50 000 IUS if you
start seeing changes then we know
regardless of how much vitamin D you
have in your blood that you were
deficient in the cell because you had a
vitamin D receptor issue all right
number two take it inconsistently like
instead of taking it on a regular basis
okay you might want to take it once
every three days or once every four days
and take a good amount apparently that's
a good strategy for certain people that
have a problem with the vitamin D
receptor even though I personally have a
problem with vitamin D I do take it
consistently each day just because it's
easy to remember but if I had an
autoimmune disease or some of these
other problems I might take it
sporadically you can take magnesium and
that will help the vitamin D receptor
you can take zinc you can take bile
salts now bile salts are interesting
because they act
as a vitamin D receptor analog what does
that mean it means that you can trigger
the gene for vitamin D without
necessarily taking vitamin D it's pretty
wild you can take it in the form of
tatka as well or just bile salts omega-3
has been known to increase the vitamin D
receptor vitamin K2 also helps and then
you have various uh plant chemicals that
are also really good to increase the
reception of the vitamin D receptor like
Resveratrol curcumin curcitin and
sulforaphane all of those can greatly
help and the last thing that can help
vitamin D is butyrate now what's
butyrate that is a short chain fatty
acid that's produced by your own
microbes okay and you can increase the
production of that if you consume
vegetables because the vegetables
provide fiber for the microbes they eat
that they convert it to butyrate and
then that can help your absorption of
vitamin D it can also help you with
insulin resistance and butyrate is a
form of a ketone so of course I would
recommend also being on the ketogenic
diet which will help insulin resistance
now the question that I always get about
vitamin D is this toxicity question
I have a very good explanation of the
true toxicity from vitamin D if you
haven't seen this video check it out I
put it up right here
