hey dr. Burke here listen it's day 11
and my shoulders healing up pretty good
I'm not wearing any type of sling right
now other than in crowds in different
places but let's show you my x-rays if
you want to see this take a look at this
this is called a humerus and we have a
plate we have nine screws and I don't
know if they use a Phillips or flathead
to put those things back in there but
this is where it was fractured you can
still see a little line right there and
then this little bump right here that's
a piece of bone all the rotator cuffs
were attached to that that was fractured
and popped up this way so they push that
down screwed it on and now they have
everything nice and secure and then over
here you can see another angle nine
screws and everything is held together
so now I can heal so one of the things I
want to mention is that one of the
things that I'm doing that is making a
huge difference is the acupressure that
I developed in the next couple of weeks
I will send you some information that
how you can learn this as well on
different things on sinus and menstrual
problems and hormones and all sorts of
things so I think you'll like it but it
really really works and unless you
experienced it you'll never know so I
want to teach you that so stay tuned now
one point is I'm going to make about
this recovery situation is that it's all
about recovery when you exercise you
should only exercise when you were
recovered so if you're sore you should
not exercise over soreness if you
haven't slept don't exercise if you're
tired you should not exercise so focus
on the recovery part of the cycle
because that's where all your fat is
burned so stay tuned and I will see you
next week
