hey dr. Burke here listen I want to talk
about what's behind bruising okay now of
course if you hit your your arm on a
door handle whatever you're going to
bruise I'm not talking about the actual
trauma that cause bruising I'm talking
about bruising and you've had no trauma
where is that coming from okay there's a
couple of different causes number one
it's a vitamin C deficiency now vitamin
C helps the capillaries with the
collagen so when you're deficient or if
you have a mild version or a subclinical
version of scurvy you'll have more
bruising and bleeding and Colonel you'll
have spider veins you have spongy gums
or periodontal issues or you know things
like that but you can also have bruising
as well so if you have that that usually
can come from not having enough vitamin
C in the diet so you don't like
vegetables or you don't consume enough
vegetables our bodies need minimally 7
cups of vegetables every single day if
you're not doing that you might want to
implement that and you're bruising may
just disappear the other cause of
bruising on vitamin C deficiency is
insulin resistance I talked about this
many many times so if you haven't seen
those videos I'll put some links down
below but that's a situation where your
your body is making too much insulin
because you're having too many
carbohydrates refined carbohydrates
specifically now number two a vitamin k1
deficiency vitamin k1 is responsible for
clotting factors okay so clotting and so
if you're not clotting you can get
bruising now again it could be you don't
have enough vitamin k1 in your diet and
that would be leafy dark greens right
leafy greens especially the dark ones
not iceberg lettuce so if you're not
consuming enough vegetables well boom so
so the vegetables really supply both of
these factors right here but let's
pretend that you are consuming those
vegetables well then it could be that
your good bacteria in your gut is not
there there's a significant amount of
vitamin k1 that is made by your own
bacteria so if you don't have those
microbes maybe you have a history of
antibiotics maybe you had something to
disrupt that maybe you have leaky gut
Crone
or diverticulitis whatever that could be
the reason why you don't have the k1 now
it also could be you're on warfarin or
coumadin which is a drug that prevents
the clotting and because it's basically
a kind of a version of rat poison where
it's just a chemical that blocks out of
and k1 and then you have internal
bleeding so in this situation they don't
want you to consume any vegetables so
here you are you can't get the k1
anymore
but you can have other vegetables like
squash and the yellow and orange
vegetables and the certain cabbages you
can do you just can't do the dark green
ones or the ones that are high in
vitamin k1 okay so that's a different
situation I'll put a link down below if
you are on this this is a blood thinner
okay so now the next thing is adrenal
weakness okay now here's the condition
right here it's called acute adrenal
cortical insufficiency which the person
has bruising all over their body okay
that's another cause of bruising but if
we look at what the adrenal gland does
one of the functions is it stores a lot
of vitamin C it's a storage house
because we need vitamin C to make
adrenal hormones even like adrenaline or
even cortisol so I my personal feeling
is that the adrenal problem with
bruising is really a vitamin C
deficiency because if you have adrenal
issues you'll deplete your vitamin C and
by the way if you're taking synthetic
vitamin C if you're not going to have
the right kind you need the full complex
from food not some synthetic version
that's made from corn stalks and
sulfuric acid which has no vitamin C in
it that won't work in fact that will
make your green Isles worse so you want
a food base vitamin C or just consume
foods high in vitamin C which would be
like the bell pepper parsley spinach
kale huge salads all those are very high
in vitamin C alright so I hope that
helped input your comments below
hey you probably already subscribed but
if you haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
