hey guys dr. burger here in this video
we're going to talk about how to relieve
stress there's eight ways okay number
one walking why because walking is an
activity that you have low stress and
lots of oxygen okay which is really good
compared to high-intensity
no oxygen type exercise and also stress
depletes space so when you walk you get
more space so I'm talking about like if
you're stuck in your head all the time
and worrying and thinking so you want to
get out there where you have a lot of
space so you can kind of get the stress
out of you out of your head number two
we want to increase the bottom be one of
them be one is essential in reducing
that internal stress that buildup of
stress that keeps you from sleeping
keeps you from feeling calm and I always
recommend nutritional yeast take one
teaspoon every single day okay number
three nutrition the best nutrition that
I recommend for stress is it using
adaptogen herbal adaptogen like
ashwagandha holy basil there's a whole
bunch of I think a whole bunch from that
you can use but adaptogens help you
increase your tolerance to stress they
increase your ability to adapt to stress
okay number four apple cider vinegar
why because apple cider vinegar has a
real good acid that helps you absorb
minerals okay that's the main thing and
we're talking about number five the
minerals that are calming calcium
magnesium potassium those are the key
minerals that calm your body there are
physiological tranquilizers they're very
very important in the leafy greens and
other things if your stomach doesn't
have enough acid you're not going to
absorb these and it's going to make you
feel a bit jittery and your muscles are
going to be tense so this is really
important in relaxing the muscles and
other things as well okay so we have
number six
acupressure can really help you if you
know how I'm going to put three links
down below but there's three different
parts of your body that you can tap into
to extract stress one is the upper part
of the neck okay and I'll put a link
you can watch this but if you do this
exercise it'll really pull a lot of
stress and you can do right before bed
there's the next one's going to be on
the adrenal area which is in your
abdomen you can work on that one and the
last one is in your mid-back the
location of the flight or fight
mechanism is called the sympathetic
nervous system if you work on all three
of those like I do every night before I
go to bed you can actually pull a lot of
stress out
next thing is breathing exercises now if
you ever notice when people are stressed
they're they're breathing like this
they're the exhalation is very short
versus the inhalation so you can
literally flip it and slow down your
breathing and I'm talking five seconds
so you can just count to five very very
slowly like breathe in counting to five
and then breathe out calling the five
the key is the exhalation slowing down
your exhalation that basically
indirectly causes your nervous system
adrenals to chill out okay and
especially if you're trying to go to bed
you can focus on your breathing I'll put
a link down below to show you how I do
it but if you notice you catch yourself
in the straightest state of stress
you'll notice like the breathing is this
really almost like you're holding your
breath okay very cool thing to do next
thing is ketosis ketosis is the state of
fat-burning and it's a low stress
activity for the brain and the self it's
a more efficient fuel source for for the
metabolism I like to combine this with
intermittent fasting because this takes
the stress way down you actually no
longer run your body on blood sugar so
you don't have the ups and downs and you
can imagine how much stress comes with
your high sugar or low sugar so if we
could run your body on fat fuel it's
much better for the brain it's much
better for your energy and your nervous
system so that's another way to lower
stress because if you're actually if
you're like a diabetic and you're
running in sugar your body is going to
be stressed out okay so those are the
eight ways go ahead and apply these and
put your comments below
