hey guys I want to answer a question can
your brain survive without carbs I
always get this question and people are
confused about it and they're consuming
all sorts of carbs thinking that your
brain can only run on those
carbohydrates well it is true that the
brain does run on glucose and it's true
that your brain needs like 600 calories
that's 25% of all your calories that you
eat every single day your brain needs
that so it needs a lot of energy and so
but here's the truth you can run your
body I'm sorry run your brain on ketones
okay it's an alternative fuel source in
fact your brain likes ketones better
than glucose and that way you avoid the
highs and the lows and you become
mentally mentally more stable the
problem is it takes a while to get in
ketosis and so if you are in the
transition phase you know for two weeks
or three weeks or even a month or longer
you can feel kind of tired in your head
because you haven't build the enzymes in
the Machinery to run on ketones and
change over the different fuel source um
all you have to do is add more B
vitamins um to make this process work a
little bit better so and then your
energy will start coming up and use
nutritional yeast for that because the
new machines need more B vitamins okay
um now what your body it will run on
ketones but if it needs glucose it will
convert protein in your diet and the fat
in the diet or on your body to glucose
so your if you don't you don't have to
consume glucose for the brain your body
can make it out of your own tissues okay
um like especially fat so and it's
called glucon neogenesis the formation
of new sugar it's it happens in your
liver and when you consume protein part
of that is used for fuel part of that is
used for body tissues so the part that's
used for fuel can be converted to
glucose so your brain or your body has
ability to do that so so can your brain
um survive without carbs absolutely uh
in fact probably much better than with
carbs people that have a lot of carbs
have a lot of brain fog all right thanks
for
watching hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
