hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna talk about rosacea okay
rosacea is a condition where you have
these red and cheeks could be in the
forehead the chin pimples it looks like
it's like a spider vein broken blood
vessels all right now if you look this
up in the medical literature you're
gonna find it's an unknown cause right
so let's talk about some common factors
relating to rosacea okay number one a
lot of women get it after menopause okay
what does that mean well the adrenal
gland backs up the ovaries during
menopause and the adrenal glands store a
lot of the vitamin C in the body and
vitamin C deficiency you have all sorts
of issues with bleeding gums spider
veins vascular issues weakness within
the arteries leaky gut because vitamin C
supports the integrity of the collagen
so you can have a vitamin C deficiency
coming from an adrenal weakness okay
that's number one number two medically
it's treated with antibiotics and
there's some results with that so there
has to be some type of microbial issue
going on so the other medication you use
is an anti-inflammatory so we have
microbes and inflammation guess what the
adrenal controls the white blood cells
so that does control the immune system
and it produces most of the
anti-inflammatories in your body as well
like prednisone is a type of cortisol
that's to be used for inflammation a lot
of women get rosacea after mold exposure
which again is some microbe that
inactivates the white blood cell so
again we have an immune issue that's
underlying things
there's also higher incidence of mites
and small intestine bacterial overgrowth
so we have this microbial imbalance in
your gut which again that's where a lot
of your immune system is okay so I
believe that it's a combination between
an immune weakness caused by some micro
probably mold in combination with weak
adrenals okay so here's the two things
I'm going to recommend and that's them
okay you can get this anywhere online or
a health food store which is a real good
anti-inflammatory and grapefruit seed
extract which is one of the best anti
mult
antifungal antibacterial natural things
that you can take so thank you so much
for watching and
your comments below hi guys hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
