let's talk about the best foods to clean
out your liver or shall we say just make
the liver cleaner because many of us
don't realize that the liver is not like
a sponge that holds toxins it's a organ
that detoxifies it removes toxins unless
you have a fatty liver so three
different problems with the liver you
can have a fatty liver you can have an
inflamed liver or a combination and then
that inflammation creates uh scar tissue
and then you can develop therosis so the
question is like what type of foods
could you eat to make the liver
healthier and cleaner let me just first
briefly touch on what the liver does I'm
not going to go through all 500
functions but it does um a lot it
actually turns ammonia into Ura so if
there's a problem with the liver you get
this backup of ammonia and you can even
actually smell it on someone's breath
sometimes when you go to like a nursing
home it smells like ammonia that is
what's happening liver damage it's
backing up it can go on the brain and
create a lot of toxicity so that's one
thing it does it helps detoxify ammonia
which comes from certain protein
metabolism breakdown then we get the
next one the buffering of hormones
there's certain things in the liver that
help buffer hormones if so if they're
too much or they're too little uh the
body will regulate the amount of active
form of a certain hormone um based on
the needs especially estrogen cortisol
and even testosterone so for example if
you have therosis of the liver you can
get a massive buildup of estrogen and if
you're male and you're older and you
have therosis of the liver your skin
becomes very very smooth you lose body
hair you might get manoobs creating all
sorts of estrogenic effects your
cortisol can go up you can be stressed
because there's something in your liver
that helps buffer cortisol and because
estrogen goes higher you become lower
with testosterone so there goes your
muscles there goes your get up and go
there goes your libido okay T4 that is
the inactive form of the thyroid hormone
did you realize that 80% of the
activation of the thyroid hormone into
this active T3 happens through your
liver so it goes from T4 to T3 so we
need a healthy liver to make that
conversion if that doesn't happen you
start developing
hypothyroidism growth hormone which is
the anti-aging hormone it has everything
to do with uh proteins building proteins
helping you sleep at night longevity uh
that hormone works through the liver as
well and there's kind of like an
extension of growth hormone it's called
igf1 which does uh similar functions if
not identical functions to the growth
hormone so if there's a problem with the
liver growth hormone doesn't seem to
work that well then we have vitamin D
vitamin D is activated by the liver and
the kidney so without a good uh liver
function you don't get the benefit of
the active form of vitamin D and even
when they check the blood they always
check the inactive form they don't check
the active form of vitamin D they're
checking the inactive form assuming that
it's being converted but what if the
liver and the kidneys are damaged okay
you're not going to be able to get a
true picture of what's going on with
vitamin D if you're just measuring the
inactive form of vitamin D but one of
the main functions of the liver is to
detoxify toxins and poisons to harmless
water soluble particles so whether
that's pesticides insecticides
herbicides heavy metals or even toxins
from cigarettes or alcohol or processed
foods your body tends to break that down
if this liver function doesn't work you
get a backup of toxicity there's also a
function of producing bile to help you
extract the fat salable nutrients from
the food including omega-3 vitamin A d e
and K so with this you're going to have
all sorts of problems with nutrients and
U being able to create an
anti-inflammatory effect because the
omega-3 just can't go into the body it
can't work next one is glycogen that's
stored glucose in your liver so the
liver holds glycogen to allow you to run
off that fuel between meals and so let's
say for example your liver is fatty or
it's dysfunctional you have therosis and
you can't run off glycogen between meals
you're going to have issues with your
brain because your brain doesn't store
glycogen it depends on the liver
glycogen or whatever you ate for its
fuel unless you're on the ketogenic diet
in which you're going to live off the
ketones that are going to generated but
a lot of these ketones are generated
from the liver so again we're going to
have a problem with fuel if the liver is
damaged especially for your brain and
other
cells immune
function until recently I did not know
of the magnitude of how important the Li
is for your immune system you have
specialized immune cells in the liver
you have a lot of different uh lymphatic
sinuses in the liver that help you from
all sorts of different angles for your
immune system and so the more we lose
the liver function the more we lose the
immune function there are some really
key things you want to avoid first
because you can eat a lot of healthy
foods but if you're eating these at the
same time uh the liver is just not going
to work that well and I'm not going to
get into the obvious stuff like alcohol
like regular sugar things like that I
want to get into some hidden things that
you need to be aware of number one soy
protein isets okay that's in a lot of
different foods now if you do research
on this probably the first five pages in
Google you'll see that it's all healthy
for the liver it's totally fine I don't
buy that because I've had people when I
was in practice come in and be on a
certain diet for a bit of time and in
that diet it was a weight loss diet and
one of the diets was called Ideal
Protein there's many others but there
are a lot of weight loss programs that
have this as their main protein it's low
fat highly refined uh protein in soy and
the way they process it there's nothing
that's going to resemble the actual
soybean itself so anyway here's what
I've noticed after someone being on this
diet being exposed to soy protein
isolates for a period of time I noticed
that a common denominator is their liver
they have a lot of liver issues like
gall issues right lower abdomen
heaviness and pain and some people had
to go to the doctor and have their Gall
blers removed so I can't buy that
something that process could be good for
the liver because the liver uh thrives
on things that are like Whole Foods not
refined Foods so I would read the
ingredients and avoid soy protein isolet
soy protein meal might be good for
Animals especially if they take out the
uh the fats out of it so doesn't turn
rancid but for humans I don't think it's
the best protein the next thing is seed
oils highly processed and it's process
with hexane which is a solvent but that
exposure of this highly uh
refined fat omega-6 fatty acid yes we
have oxidative stress we have
inflammation but I think also it's
replacing our cells it's going deep into
the tissue it's not a natural thing but
we consume so much of it all right the
next food I would definitely avoid and
you you probably already know this high
fructose corn syrup but what you
probably didn't know they're not
starting out making this high fructose
corn syrup with this you know sweet corn
that people eat during the summer right
they don't start out with that they use
what's called Dent corn or field corn
it's completely inedible I don't care
how much butter you put on that corn or
you add salt it's disgusting and the
majority of corn grown is this field
corn to fatten cattle right to make the
meat marbly what is it doing to us and
they also use it for high fructose corn
syrup and glucose syrup and the modified
starches and so they start with this
inedible corn okay and they go through
probably like 18 different steps I don't
know the exact number but it's a lot of
different steps and they're taking the
protein out and they're breaking it down
with enzymes and acids and then they add
this chemical to it and that chemical
use high Heats at the end of this chain
of event you get something that does not
resemble anything related to corn and
we're putting this in our body and it's
been in the food supply since I think
1977 where in farmers were were paid or
subsidized because of the Corn but the
problem it's so heavy in this Ultra
processed foods AKA junk foods and
flavored and sweetened in a way that
makes it taste somewhat good but highly
addictive and high fructus corn syrup
has some very unique properties in that
the majority of it is processed by the
liver okay not all but the majority so
the liver takes the beating it creates
inflammation it leads to insulin
resistance it leads to problems with
your blood fats and cholesterol it leads
to problems with the fatty liver it
stimulates more hunger the high fructose
corn syrup is very very different than
the fructose from fruit and it's just
Ultra refined okay so that's one I would
definitely stay away from then we get to
fine starches I'm talking about
maltodextrin I'm talking about modified
food starch and uh like for example like
in this food right here we have H corn
starch corn syrup dextrose all made out
of corn okay so that's what this is made
out of so you're feeding kids and some
adults I don't even call it food because
it doesn't fit the definition of food
food is something that give you Fuel and
help nourish the body well this fuel
will not give energy it'll make you so
tired and the only nutrients in there
are the synthetics that they spray in
there but they're all made from you know
chemicals and things like that and then
we get glucose syrup itself now what's
interesting there's no sugar in here
from sugar cane okay we replace sugar
cane which even I think growing up back
in the early 70s we use a lot of
sugarcan and a lot of sodas and things
like that that's all been replaced with
this synthetic or highly synthesized Siz
sugar which I think behaves a lot
differently than even sugar cane and so
it's all date coincidence right with
this alter processed food which is
mainly highly refined corn and other
starch products with the GMO on top of
that and if you look at liver function I
think Ultra processed foods which what I
just described is probably at the very
top of the list as far as destroying
your liver so the question is what can
you eat to uh keep the liver healthy
okay you want to eat Whole Foods let's
first talk about fats okay uh some of
the best fats uh would be like olive oil
okay but also a different type of fat
called medium chain triglycerides MCT
oil type fats and that would be in
butter so you'd want to cook with butter
put butter in your food but make sure
it's from grass-fed you know cow milk
but the MCT uh fats the medium chain
triglycerides are very different because
they don't require bile so they're less
stressful on the liver uh when you
consume them I also found some research
that these
MCT oils are fats help protect against a
fatty liver you want to make sure you
cook with it and then on your salad you
put olive oil extra virgin high quality
olive oil don't use the seed oils make
your own salad dressing very important
if you want to help your liver number
two fish okay wild caught fish
preferably high in omega3 fatty acids
because omega-3 fatty acids are
anti-inflammatory they're liver
protective they help uh balance the
cholesterol issues all right number
three organic pasture raised eggs not
commercial eggs but egg yolks have
probably the highest amount of Coline of
any food that I know not sure about uh
liver liver might have more choline but
egg yolks have a lot of choline choline
is great for a fatty liver if you're
deficient in choline you can end up with
a fatty liver but choline helps remove
fat off your liver not to mention the
high quality protein in eggs as well as
all the other nutrients The Next Food on
the list is a general category of dark
leafy green vegetables or just leafy
green vegetables why because of the
vitamin C because of the folate which is
very important in the liver because of
the Magnesium the
potassium and the phytonutrients there
are so many great properties antioxidant
anti-inflammatory properties that are
really good for the delivered now the
only time I wouldn't recommend them if
you had some type of inflammatory gut
issue which you can't deal with the
fiber but for everyone else I would
recommend that number five is a type of
vegetable it's a category of vegetables
it's cruciferous out of all the
cruciferous radish is probably the best
thing for the liver unfortunately I just
can't eat radishes I don't like them I
know my wife likes them she just can eat
them like candy I can't consuming them
but if I did like them I would eat a lot
of them radish has have this higher
sulfur compound uh that is really good
for the phase one phase 2 detoxification
so we talked about this poison turning
into water soluble things well this
enzyme complex takes this poison from
very toxic and starts to break it down
and when you consume cruciferous
vegetables and other herbs there are
certain things in them that activate our
own Phase 1 Phase 2 detoxifying enzymes
as well well as give us uh enzymes to
help break down these chemicals so this
is why we recommend cruciferous so
radishes are good second favor is
arugala it's a little bit bitter
anything bitter is good for the liver
and of course we get brussels sprouts
cabbage really good for the lower bowel
which uh support the liver as well
there's this whole connection between
your bowel or your friendly bacteria and
your liver if one goes down the other
one go goes down so cabbage is good for
anything inflamed in your gut and even
in the liver there's other cruciferous
vegetables but those are the four that I
like the most number six category
Probiotic foods I just mentioned this
the friendly Flora greatly supports the
liver if you were exposed to an
antibiotic or something to destroy your
good Flora the liver suffers if you're
exposed to something like aspartame or
some other synthetic artificial Sweeten
that alters the gut microbiome which
then raises liver enzymes and puts you
at risk for a fatty liver so the three
top foods for that that I like
sauerkraut make sure you get it raw
kimry same thing and then we have kefir
make sure that it's organic kefir
unsweetened if you can get goat kefir or
sheep kefir that's even better Kefir is
better than yogurt because it has
strains of friendly yeast and friendly
bacteria it has a lot more than just the
yogurt and last cat is grass-fed meat in
different forms you can do lamb you can
do goat you can do beef deer meat I
would just make sure that it's grass-fed
grass finished that would be the ideal
situation if you can if you can't well
then get what you can but I will tell
you from personal experience when I
consume high quality meat my liver feels
great it feels good compared to me
eating like peanut butter or nuts or um
seeds I have some experience with liver
problems I destroyed my liver eating
Ultra processed foods and a lot of bad
foods for many years in fact there was
one year I remember I consumed every
night Margaritas uh just every single
night and they were sweetened and at
first it was great right but then
towards the end of the year boy my
health started going down down down down
and of course then I replaced it with
Ben and Jerry's ice cream like a pint a
day to help myself go into a sugar coma
to help myself sleep and to proceed both
of these these actions you know I lived
on junk food for years did never ate
anything raw or healthy everything was
refined lots of pasta lots of bread lots
of refined carbohydrates lots of cereal
and a lot of Doritos and chips until I
eventually started noticing a heavy full
feeling underneath my right rib cage
that little did I know it was my
gallbladder uh which is connected to the
liver and then it started referring pain
to my right shoulder which I've had this
this pain for years like at least 12 to
15 years I didn't know what it was at
the time and of course I had a lot of
bloating and indigestion and I didn't
connect the dots and it wasn't until I
started getting rid of these grains and
getting rid of the cereal and replacing
it with
meat that I started noticing relief and
so I started noticing wow that that
sensation is going away so it actually
helped my blood sugar it helped my brain
fog but it took the inflammation away
from liver sometimes you hear that meat
is bad for you but they're not
differentiating grass-fed grassfish beef
and process meat they put them all in
one big category with junk food now
let's compare that with the fake meat
products right you have soy protein
isolates you have modified food starch
you have potato starch in there maybe
pea protein maybe rice syrup salads
things like that I mean think about when
you eat that what you're going to feel
like I was at Whole Foods a long time
ago and I was at the deli and I was
really hungry so I said wow those those
chicken wings look pretty darn good
right so I bought some of the chicken
wings they looked all the same size and
shape but I didn't question it I just
said oh okay so it must be just some
chicken meat you know that's uh maybe
formed into one little that I know that
was the soy protein isolate fake meat
with probably the textured vegetable
protein whatever anyway I was eating it
on the way home I like wow this is this
tastes pretty good until I got home and
then I got really really sick
bloed uh my eyes started feeling
irritated not good and there's two last
supplements I think I'm going to
recommend just if you have like therosis
of the liver because the problem with
therosis is that a lot of times people
are on the um liver transplant list and
there's a long waiting list um but why
don't we just maybe try to revive the
liver and to try to reverse this damage
if we can in the meantime so tokat
trinal it's a type of vitamin E really
good for everything liver the next thing
is called TKA TKA is a type of bile salt
that really keeps the liver healthy and
keeps the sludge from building up in the
liver and uh you'll feel much better if
you take that I would take two in the
morning okay empty stomach take two in
the afternoon empty stomach I'm not
going to recommend any brand you just
have to just search that out and look at
various products and their reviews to
see if you could find a good one so
those are the two supplements now if you
have not seen my video on how to
diagnose your liver by using your foot
it sounds kind of funny but it's really
interesting information I put that video
up right here check it out
