the biggest lie about food now from an
very early age we've all been taught
that saturated fat and cholesterol is
really bad for our hearts so in fact
it's going to kill us right so when you
eat lard red meat butter it's going to
clog your arteries but actually what is
cholesterol what's saturate fat it's
very confusing are they the same are
they different I'm going to make this so
simple for you first let's just cover
cholesterol what is it it's a type of
fat that your liver makes and the reason
why your liver makes this type of fat is
to make cell membranes the stuff around
your cells it's to help make hormones
it's to help make even vitamin D you
can't make vitamin D without cholesterol
so now let's tackle saturated fat very
simply it's a type of fat that will stay
solid at room temperature versus another
type of fat which is liquid at room
temperature and that's called
unsaturated fat for example if we take
coconut oil right and we compare that to
lard both of them are solid at room
temperature both of them have saturated
fat and interestingly enough coconut oil
has 87% saturated fat compared to lard
which only has 47 not even 50% of it is
saturated fat out of all the different
types of saturated fat the one that has
the biggest so-called bad influence on
your cholesterol is something called
meristic acid marisic acid has been
studied and found that it can increase
your bad cholesterol marisic acid by
itself is very high in coconut oil but
only 2% of the saturated fat in red meat
is this meristic acid so tell me why
saturated fat is bad if it's in coconut
oil if we have two concepts one is that
consuming cholesterol increases your
cholesterol the truth about that is it
has a very very small impact if anything
most of the cholesterol is made by your
body and people have the confusion that
cholesterol is coming in the body and
creating a problem if we're saying that
cholesterol is the worst thing you eat
then why does your body make 80% is it
trying to kill you no it's trying to
help you it's trying to get you to
survive if your body makes 80% of your
cholesterol if you add a little bit more
guess what your body makes less there's
a little bit of a thermostat there
adjusting if you eat more it makes less
if you eat less it makes a little bit
more but if you eat sugar that will
definitely increase your cholesterol if
you're eating all the sugar the average
person consumes way too much so the
motor can't handle it so it has to put
it in storage so it starts to convert it
as fat and cholesterol so again you've
been told a lie that these foods are bad
it's okay to consume steak lard butter
there's not much of a difference between
those and coconut oil so now that we've
covered the greatest lie let's talk
about the biggest truth cholesterol only
becomes bad when you combine it with
sugar smoking trans fats seed oils one
of the problems with these is how
they're made they go through an
industrial assembly line of chemical
solvents like hexane that's in
gasoline and this is highly inflammatory
oil so when you combine all these things
with cholesterol as this rusting effect
starts creating holes just like a car is
your body has to heal it so it's going
to heal it with various things
cholesterol calcium protein and that's
basically your body's way of putting
together a Band-Aid the problem with
that is it clogs the artery so it's
funny that people think that cholesterol
is bad because it makes a part of your
Band-Aid but they don't consider protein
bad they don't consider calcium bad and
that's really what we should be teaching
people
