hey guys today we're gonna talk about
parasites okay there's some things you
can do if if you potentially have a
parasite infection the first thing you
need to know is that some of the
symptoms are abdominal pain definitely
everything connected with digestion
diarrhea or constipation nausea bloating
fatigue moody itching private parts a
sudden weight loss cravings especially
for dairy blood sugar problems so let's
say for example you were had a trip and
you were visiting another country and
you consumed their food or their water
that's one common way that you would get
a parasite or you're hiking in the woods
and you drink water the stream water or
you had some antibiotics you potentially
could then get a parasite because your
resistance is really low you don't have
those defenses anymore or at least you'd
get a candida problem or a fungus or a
yeast infection
raw meat could have a lot of parasites
depending on where you're the quality of
the meat that you're consuming if it's
like a raw fish for example like in
sushi low stomach acids this is
something that's actually very very
interesting and because a lot of people
don't realize that one of the important
functions of the stomach is to kill off
these pathogens so it's a part of the
immune system by having such a strong
acid that these parasites can't survive
so if you your stomach is not acidic
enough which is very very common
especially as you get older or after you
take an antibiotic okay and the way that
you know that you actually have a
problem with low stomach acids is that
you have heartburn or acid reflux
that's classic that means chances are
you don't have enough acid then you're
more susceptible to getting some type of
microbial infection because you don't
have the acid there they kill off all
right so now what do you do if you
potentially have a parasite problem
here's some good remedies I like these
three the best wormwood
extract extremely bitter I mean it's
probably the most bitter thing on the
planet and so it drives all these
parasites right out of the body
black walnut hulls
again extremely bitter and clove so
there are remedies that you can get with
all three of these together that's what
I'm gonna recommend and of course avoid
all dairy because these parasites love
milk sugar and they might even cause
cravings to things like ice cream I know
it's hard to believe sugar
avoid sugar and also raw meats okay and
then you should probably start
acidifying your stomach to with
something called betaine hydrochloride
or apple cider vinegar you can get them
in a tablet form too alright thanks for
watching hey guys so there's a whole
bunch of people that really need this
information so press the share button
and let's get it way out there
