hey guys in this video we're going to
show you how to get your body to burn
its own fat okay number one you have to
lower your carbs and sugar like this
right here because in the presence of
this your body will not burn this okay
so we have to lower the carbs down to
about between 20 and 50 grams if you
have a stubborn metabolism bring it down
even below 20 grams per day not per meal
so what happens is you're going to put
yourself in the ketosis where your body
is running in your fat fuel so you have
to adapt to fat burning when you start
out you're going to have to increase the
dietary fat in your diet okay because
it's going to be hard to go from one
meal to the next when you do in a minute
fasting I put a link down below for
those of you that don't know what I'm
talking about okay so we want to combine
healthy ketosis with in a minute fasting
lower the carbs add more fat in the diet
get comfortable with this to the point
where you're not craving anything
anymore you're not hunger anymore
because your body is finally starting to
tap into your own fat
why because you lured sugar and carbs
okay so initially you want to increase
your fat but as you adapt you may
Plateau
in which case at that point you may need
to reduce your fat so your body consumes
more of your own fat and not the dietary
fat if we want to get rid of this on
your body we have to adjust the dietary
fat we start lowering the dietary fat a
little bit a little bit a little bit
until your body starts utilizing your
own fat okay so we have to lower the
dietary fat to force our body to use up
our own fat for energy so that's kind of
the adjustment that you're going to have
to go through to get your body to eat
its own fat now make sure you always
have a moderate amount of protein in the
diet between three to six ounces per
meal why because if you cut out protein
your body will start breaking down your
own muscle protein and other proteins
for fuel and we want to avoid that so we
want to make sure there's some protein
to use to replace the body parts are
also going to lose your hair and you're
going to muscle is going to get weak
okay so we want a little bit of protein
if you have too much
protein that can also stop your fat
burning too so have a moderate amount
okay so I hope that helped the next
thing is to just get started
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talk about keyed out in
a minute fasting the body types in
detail I have a new stressed chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
and a comprehensive FAQ I put a link
down below check it out
