so we're going to talk about why people
can't lose weight there's three videos
this is the first in its Series in this
first video we're going to talk about
the two main problems that I find people
have number one is that they're not
eating the right things for their body
type or uh maybe they're eating
healthily and nothing's working so they
are eating the right thing for their
body type or they're eating healthily
and it's still not working so I'm not
going to put too much attention on that
part because that's the most obvious
thing that people look at I want to talk
about the second problem which is
basically your body's ability to burn
fat uh you can you can say your
metabolism uh you can say the health of
your metabolism the health of your body
um now you go to your doctor and he says
uh oh you're healthy Mrs Jones you just
need to lose weight no you need to get
healthy to be able to lose weight
because if you were healthy you wouldn't
have the weight in the first place
because that's the strength of your
metabolism so we want to put more
attention on getting your body to
metabolize faster um burn fat easier and
not make it so hard so instead of
putting all this energy on the next diet
that comes along or the next pill let's
start focusing on how do we improve our
body's ability to use food to tap into
the fat reserve and burn it off so the
point about getting healthy is um really
has to do has to do with this one thing
called recovery now what is recovery
recovery is your ability to bounce back
from
exercise stress sleep so when you
exercise do you see change right away
does it take a long time does it take a
lot of effort when you exercise do you
get sore and it lasts for a week after
one workout that would kind of Define
what kind of recovery that you have or
let's say you experien stress how long
does it take to bounce back from stress
do you hang on to things for like a week
can you drop them fast how is your
tolerance to stress these are all things
that tell us what's going on with
recovery if you push your body up the
stairs real fast you get out of wind
easily uh a good test for Recovery uh
you can even check your blood pressure
it's in my book you take your blood
pressure lying down and then standing up
if your blood pressure drops down
instead of going up to adapt to that
stress then we know the recovery is low
there's even other tests that you can do
on recovery so the point is that we want
to use the um these different things to
figure out what kind of recovery you
have why because then we can adjust your
workouts to your ability to recover and
prevent overtraining because if you're
going to do a P90X or maybe a um
something well they have different
gradients on p9x let's say a CrossFit um
where you're doing the uh massive uh
hardcore workouts it might not be you
not might not be ready for that okay so
we want to adapt to work out to your
recovery so recovery is really the
ability to turn your body off so when
you go to sleep do you go right to sleep
and do you stay asleep for seven eight
hours and wake up feeling refreshed if
you don't then we know the recovery is a
problem so instead of getting up at 4:30
in the morning to go work out to try to
stimulate your body it'd be much smarter
to be able to get a good night's sleep
to be able to let the fat burn because
that's when you burn fat at night how do
we improve recovery well that's we call
that negative gain it's something that
we don't we have to take things away
from your body and including stress so I
found it's the accumulation of stress
that destroys your recovery uh
overtraining uh mental stress emotional
stress that all builds up over time and
then now you have no recovery so we want
to do things to pull stress out and that
is why I recommend the acupressure
either to do it yourself version or come
in our office or I have tons of videos
to show show you how to do this on the
blogs on YouTube but you want to do
different techniques to pull stress out
of your body to be able to turn your
body off to the point where you go to
sleep you sleep deeply and you can start
recharging that would be way way way way
way more important than almost anything
else that you can do okay
so what did we get out of this video put
more attention on recovery try not to
overtrain get more sleep pull stress out
with various techniques instead of
wasting your time on trying
to put so much energy into trying the
next new diet that comes along of course
you need to get the right eating plan
but a lot of people that I see that come
in are not eating terrible and they're
still not losing weight and the reason
is because their recovery and their
health is not higher they're not high
enough to tap into the fat okay so
that's that's the uh most important
thing in series one
