hey guys I'm back in this video I'm
gonna share with you my three biggest
most stupid dietary mistakes okay so
number one I recommended my first book
do not skip meals snack on nuts seeds
and apples through the day that is very
bad advice don't follow that advice okay
here's another section right here don't
allow yourself to get hungry this means
you need to eat more in between meals
bad advice because every time you eat
you spike insulin that was the missing
piece of the puzzle that I didn't have
at the time and I just recommended
everyone just graze all day long and at
night and what happened it kept the
insulin high and it definitely would
prevent a lot of people from losing
weight okay number two the best fruit is
the Apple and it says right here an
apple which has fiber is a better snack
before bed another piece of bad advice
because apples are too sweet they have
about 19 grams of sugar
this will keep someone from losing
weight okay I'm sorry all right and
lastly do not eat animal proteins meat
chicken etc or fish in the first two
weeks so I put everyone on this liver
cleanse and that's going to create a
situation with blood sugars so this is
more bad advice because if you cut out
the protein you need protein to build
body tissue so I just want you know I
did update the book and if I find
something that works better I will let
you know
press the subscribe button press just
press this button right here subscribe
okay that one right there just do it
right now what's the next part what am I
going to say
take five do it and where am I going
with this
press this subscribe button forgot the
last part and I'm going to see you next
time am I going to I will press the
subscribe button and I will keep you
updated on the future events
