I want to talk about the dangers of too
much salt or too much sodium okay we
have heart disease we have high blood
pressure we have stroke edema increased
mortality sounds pretty scary right well
these things occur not for the reason
you think I mean the question is is it
really too much sodium is that what's
causing the problem in reality our body
tends to hold sodium
if there's a potassium deficiency in
fact there's something called salt
sensitivity where the body is retaining
sodium but the reason why you retain
sodium and therefore water is because
you have a potassium deficiency this is
something that's really overlooked and
not talked about too much we're so
focused on sodium we kind of forget
about this other mineral called
potassium but sodium potassium always
work together in the body it's kind of
like a teeter-totter the requirements
for sodium per day are 2300 milligrams
but the requirements for potassium are 4
700 that's actually more than double so
this ratio is really really important
okay two to one twice as much potassium
as sodium and guess what you will no
longer be salt sensitive in fact the
symptoms of this excess sodium will
disappear when you increase your
potassium you see the majority of the
population has as this problem of too
much sodium and not enough potassium
okay they don't consume enough greens
they eat a lot of processed foods you
get your sodium from junk Foods refined
foods and restaurant Foods very few
people ever consume enough potassium
foods right they think if I have a
banana a day that's going to do it a
banana has about 300 milligrams now
remember you need 4 700 okay you'd have
to have you know more than 12 bananas
and then you're going to get all the
sugar which is not going to happen so
you have this situation where people are
just really heavy on the sodium but very
very low on the potassium and this is
where we have the problem on top of that
okay 38 of the population has a genetic
uh variation with a certain Gene called
the ace Gene which means that Gene is
overactive which means they're going to
be more salt sensitive when they have
more sodium and they're going to have
more blood pressure because of that this
simple solution is just to increase your
potassium especially if you have this
Gene problem and not do what everyone
else is doing by reducing their sodium
reducing their salt going on the low
salt diet because now they have a
situation where they're low in sodium
and low in potassium and that's even
worse because they're going to be going
around so tired you need both sodium
potassium for something called the
sodium potassium pump okay in fact all
of your cells have this pump this is
what activates the nerves this is what
activates the muscles and when you're
deficient in these key electrolytes boy
you get all sorts of issues with the
heart like arrhythmias you get tired you
feel weak and all you need to do is
increase the sodium and potassium but in
the right ratios and the real problem is
a potassium deficiency low potassium
causes the retention of sodium and this
is where you have all the problems with
the heart with the blood pressure with
hardening of the arteries with increased
risk of arrhythmias and stroke potassium
is not retained
like sodium is so when we have a lot of
potassium it's easily eliminated through
the kidneys unless you have like stage
five kidney disease which is very rare
however sodium is much more retained
especially if you have low potassium so
this is probably a common cause of leg
cramps as well so we do need sodium okay
we need sufficient amounts but we need a
lot more potassium now to really learn
about how to get more potassium through
your foods
this is the next video you should watch
right here
