the benefits of drinking clove water at
night let's talk about this cloves at
one time were worth more than gold this
is what they look like you can see it in
this little jar right here they're these
little tiny structures a lot of people
might have had these in like ham and
they're sold as a spice and you have
them already you just need to know how
to use them and what they're good for
they were so valuable they were
exchanging them with gold amazing
they've been used in China for over
2,000 years for certain medicines they
were also used in the black plague when
you might have seen pictures of those
people with those long masks and they'd
be basically burning certain herbs and
it would Breathe In The Vapors well one
of the spices they use was clove because
of its antiviral and antibacterial
properties also in early Dentistry
before they had certain medications that
numbed the tooth problem they use clove
oil I mean in fact even with minor
surgeries they use clove oil because of
its analgesic effect very similar to the
synthetic lioc cane that certain
dentists use so it's a topical and you
can put it extra stly on your skin you
can also put on your gums you can put it
directly on the tooth if there's a
cavity and the nerve is exposed it will
help numb that nerve now the cool thing
about this is there's virtually no side
effects it has anti-bacterial anti-
fungal
anti-candida antiviral properties in
addition to numbing the tooth or numbing
pain it can also go after the microbes
that are growing there whether it's a
fungal candida bacteria or even virus
and where I found this information was
in certain patents on using the oil of
clove for various things helping
increase the bof flow as well as
increasing digestive enzymes they patent
a mouthwash toothpaste as well as a
gingivitis treatment so it works on
everything oral and then I started
looking at medications and what
medications that they can you know
compare to in a similar Effectiveness or
even work better so in this first study
they compared clove oil to something
called benzocaine which is a pain
reliever that dentists use to numb the
teeth and this was in the Journal of
Dentistry they found that this oil from
cloved worked faster it was longer
lasting and more effective for tooth AES
as well as tooth infections because it
also had this antimicrobial effect as
well in another study they compared
eugenol to Hydrocortisone and they found
the effectiveness was equal or greater
in reducing swelling and redness of the
skin and this study was in one of the
inflammatory research journals the next
study I looked at was on fungal
infections like toenail fungus athletes
foot and they compared tea tree oil to
clove oil and clove oil killed candida
and fungus faster then there was a
comparison between clove oil and
Lidocaine and in that study clove oil
had longer lasting effects for numbing
that was in the Journal of pain research
so now let's get into how you can use
this because you already have this in
your pantry you just need to know how to
use it and what conditions you can use
this on and I'm going to give you a
couple different recipes that you can
make this in a SV and liquid that you
can drink before bed but let's first
talk about the conditions that it's good
for now of course I already mentioned
it's great for anything with teeth pain
or biofilms like plaing things like that
and of course you can even just take one
of these cloves and then just suck on it
or you can just take the oil from it
with a little cotton swab and dab it on
the tooth and the gum around the tooth
but if you have a cavity you want to
actually put it right into that cavity
directly another application is for
muscle pain okay as well as joint pain
you're going basically just take a
couple drops put it in a little olive
oil or coconut oil and rub it into the
muscle or joint you can also mix a
couple drops in epson salts and water
all dissolved nicely and rub that into
the muscle as well because the epson
salts is the Magnesium that can also
help the muscles some people use it as a
lip balm and you can put this on like a
a klur which is herpes simplex you'd
have to mix a couple drops with either
beeswax or coconut oil and just rub it
into the lip remember it's antiviral as
well and herpy Simplex is a virus with
the mosquito repellent you would put a
couple drops in a little spray bottle
and you would spray that on your body I
actually use this on my cattle in the
summer with all of these flies not
mosquitoes and it works like a charm but
it's not toxic all right now the
following things I'm going to talk about
are using clove water which I'll explain
how to prepare that and I would drink
this before bed it seems to work really
good because they help relax you and
they can help you drift off into
wonderful sleep as well so might as well
take it before you go to bed it's not a
necessity but it can definitely help so
the first thing it does is it helps to
detoxify the liver so it's going to
stimulate some of the enzymes to help
break things down in the liver it's
going to help you with digestion so if
you have bloating indigestion gas
consume some of this clove water maybe
you do this after a meal when you're
bloating and it can help reduce the
bloating another very potent effect of
this clove water is to use it for
respiratory problems like bronchitis
mucus in the lungs a cold a cough Asma
you can consider it as like a natural
antibiotic but without the side effects
some people also use it for cognitive
improvements improve the memory
concentration the focus but this clove
water also works with heart stuff so it
can actually support a healthy heart as
well especially when you get into blood
circulation anything related to
circulation clove water is awesome it
also has immune properties so it can
help support a healthy immune system
because it's antimicrobial some people
even use it as a mouthwash to help
freshen their breath and I've already
talked about the great benefits for
biofilms and breaking down plaque and
then of course the the last one which I
kind of already mentioned was using this
as a sleep aid because it's a natural
sedative without the the negative
effects it does not have side effects
like sleeping medication does and
there's also some tryptophan in there
that will actually increase serotonin
and help you increase melatonin so how
do you make clove water what you do is
you take about four or five these little
cloves okay put them in a cup of water
and bring it to a boil and then take it
off boiling so it's simmering for 5
minutes now make sure that you cover it
while it's simmering because you don't
want to have all these Vapors escape a
lot of the remedy is in the vapors that
are coming off this thing that are
supposed to go back into the water after
5 minutes let it cool for 1 hour what I
like to do is put it back in the fridge
and then what you want to do is consume
it 30 minutes before you go to bed now
if you're using for children it might be
a little bitter so you might want to add
a little bit of honey to it maybe a half
a teaspoon dissolve raw honey into it
and then have them drink it it's
actually pretty delicious with honey or
I think it's good without it if you want
to make this into a cream just put a
couple drops into some coconut oil or
olive oil and use that and also if you
have like some typee of wound that you
want to increase the healing I would use
aloe put a couple drops of aloe and put
that over the wound so you can speed up
healing and it can also act as an
antiseptic now if you haven't seen my
other video on clove I think you really
enjoy it I put it up right here check it
out
