we're going to talk about the top foods
that can ruin and destroy your liver I'm
talking from a lot of experience because
I have ruined my liver from the foods
that I've eaten in the past that was my
weak link and I had no idea at the time
I was destroying my liver so as I go
through these Foods don't be offended
I'm just increasing awareness and these
are really common foods and
unfortunately a lot of these foods are
in the restaurants that you go to and
they use the cheapest ingredient I mean
if you look at like even the kids menu
it's just the worst food that you can
eat there's a lot of hidden maltodextrin
which is like it's worse than sugar even
though it's not classified as a sugar
it's like a filler they use really cheap
oils like soy oil and corn oil so you're
getting a lot of stuff that you don't
even know you're getting and this is
probably why you leave the restaurant
and feel bloated and you don't feel very
good when you consume these Foods so
there's three main problems with the
liver you have inflammation you have a
fatty liver and you have scar tissue
that eventually turns into something
called sorosis and if you ever look at
someone who has therosis um their skin
does not look good usually if it's a guy
they they're skinny but they have this
pot belly that's called aites that's a
fluid filled sack in their gut it's not
fat because the liver is leaking this
fluid into the sack because the liver is
very very sick and a lot of times
they're kind of yellowish their the
whites of the eyes are yellow their skin
is kind of yellowish it's called
jaundice definitely alcohol is is a big
culprit but a lot of people are having
what's called non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease I mean the stats are just going
off the charts especially with younger
kids even so we're going to go through
these Foods okay and uh and also talk
about what foods to reverse these
problems because one cool thing about
the liver is that it can take a beating
but it can regenerate it's very
regenerative but there's always a point
of limitation all right let's start with
number one fried foods okay I'm talking
about the fried foods maybe at a
restaurant you're going to get these
these fried things which are not going
to be fried in healthy oils they're
going to be fried in uh seed oils like
corn canola cotton seed soy oil all of
those are GMO so you're going to get the
glyphosate and yes they're very
inflammatory but another thing that
these seed oils do which are omega-6
oils is they tend to invade our tissues
and become part of our cell membranes
we're not even talking about the effects
of that down the road
not good especially if it's in your
arteries and it's making things very
very brittle and very inelastic so one
common uh fried food would be when you
fry a starch like in potato chips right
we have potatoes okay we have vegetable
oil cotton seed oil now when you think
of a vegetable do you think of a cotton
seed no okay next one is corn oil is
corn a vegetable no I don't think think
it is but they're calling it a vegetable
oil and what about sunflower I don't
really consider that a vegetable I maybe
it is but it's kind of a seed so that's
the vegetable oils that they're going to
fry this stuff in and so when you take
high heat you take a starch okay and you
cook it with a fat it binds and it
develops something called Advanced
glycation and products it's this form of
glycation basically where you're bonding
a fat to a sugar okay because that
carbohydrates going to break down the
sugar and then it's going to create
problems and build up and accumulate and
create inflammation okay where liver
other tissues here's another chip that I
used to
consume massive amounts okay let's see
what's in here we have potatoes all
right vegetable oil corn cotton seed we
have also soy oil then we have corn
flour rice flour
maltodextrin okay can't forget that and
um wheat starch this will definitely
increase your blood sugar and it's going
to turn into sugar really quick probably
with the multiex it's definitely over a
hundred on the glycemic index so you're
going to be converting a lot of this to
fat on your liver and that's not going
to be good but man do they make these
taste good they have I don't know what's
in there you can't just have one they're
very addicting and as soon as I start
consuming these not now in the past I
will not be able
to stop all right number two canned meat
products so in college okay I didn't
have a lot of money so I'd go to these
discounted grocery stores and get these
canned oral chilies and all these
different canned Meats I'm not talking
about sardines or canned tuna I'm
talking about canned meat like spam and
all sorts of stuff and with those canned
Meats they add in there cornflour
modified corn starch textured soy flour
they're adding all these other stuff in
there not good because when you combine
a
carbohydrate with a fat or a
carbohydrate with a protein especially
you're going to create that glycation
again and that glycation is going to
plug up the liver it can go into the
tissues in the eyes into the heart the
arteries into the brain all over the
place again not only increasing
inflammation but also increasing insulin
which actually creates more fat so we
have fried foods like chips we have
canned meat products right because
there's a bunch of stuff in there and
number three we have my favorite TV
dinners which I used to love right you
ever look at the ingredients in a TV
dinner wow it's scary so I I found one
that uh look very appetizing you have
Meatloaf I used to love meatloaf in fact
when I was in college I got this recipe
from my grandmother who used to make it
really delicious I didn't fully read it
I just kind of scanned it and I made
this meatloaf so I took a pound of
hamburger and I took a um a loaf of like
white bread and with ketchup and I mixed
it all together then I consumed it one
sitting okay yeah well guess what I
forgot to do I forgot to drain all the
grease out of there so I basically
consumed all of the fat with the ketchup
and all the sugar that comes with it
needless to say I woke up at 2 o'clock
in the morning uh with a severe uh
gallbladder problem I went to the
drugstore trying to buy some
over-the-counter medic ation which did
not work I didn't know it was my
gallbladder at the time I was completely
oblivious but meatloaf boy you're you're
just cooking this carb with this meat
and you're creating more glycation
you're creating more liver problems and
gallbladder issues and with that
inflammation creates more insulin
resistance which raises your blood sugar
and creates more visceral fat around the
liver and fat inside the liver which is
called ectopic fat the fat is actually
outside the fat cell and it's going into
the organs and and it's creating
dysfunction with the liver itself so
with this TV dinner normally comes with
modified food starch wheat flour
dextrose modified corn starch and we
can't forget sugar right we're going to
mix all these ingredients and we're
going to eat this stuff right not the
best food for the liver all right number
four nachos in college I would take this
can of cheese something and pour that on
these chips right with salsa so of
course in the chips you have the corn
flour which is all GMO with glyphosate
and other chemical then you have all the
oils right and then we have the cheese
sauce right be lucky if there's actually
cheese in the cheese sauce and also
let's say for example you go somewhere
to a fast food restaurant right where
they're doing deep frying how many times
did they actually change the oil a lot
of times they won't change it for weeks
sometimes months and you're getting your
food fried in there over and over and
over again that's going to create a lot
of oxidative stress to your cells if you
eat the food that's fried in in there
it's usually going to be a carbohydrate
all right number five and tomato soup
now I'm picking on tomato soup but
there's probably other ones to and I
happen to look at the ingredients in
this tomato soup which I also used to
consume a lot of and there're not just
tomatoes in there there is a ton of
sugar and wheat flour and other
chemicals and just in 1 half of a cup
that's 4 oun that's just a tiny bit
there's actually four teaspoons of sugar
16 grams of sugar and who consumes a
half of a cup of the soup you're going
to eat the whole can right I mean at
least one and what does that come out to
that's actually eight TPO of sugar it
creates FAT and it creates inflammation
and oxidative stress all right number
six this is kind of a category of a
bunch of foods that have high fructose
corn syrup in it now the fructose and
high fructose corn syrup is different
than the fructose from fruit don't buy
into this idea that oh it's the same
molecule right there's a lot of
different es right you have this highly
processed thing from corn and they
manipulate it and then over here you
have in nature it's a different product
plus you have all the protective things
in fruit that might protect you against
diabetes and things like that over here
with the hyper corn Sy we don't have
that but I'm talking about like liquid
candy like soda I'm talking about
jellies you know I remember going to
restaurants and taking the little
jellies that they would have on the
table and just consuming one just
without even thinking twice I never
really looked at the ingredients but
that's high for corn syrup ketchup high
fructose corn syrup candy bread
applesauce maple syrup agava nectar
whipped cream and the list goes on and
on and on and on so out of all the
sugars that are bad for your liver
fructose is at the top of the list your
liver treats fructose like alcohol like
a toxin and you can create a lot of
serious insulin resistance problems and
fatty liver and um inflammation of liver
which leads to the ceros so um I think
fructose is right up there at the top of
the list as far as what damages the
liver and number seven um this actually
includes something called the apoxin
which is a type of mold that has been
known to cause liver cancer and you're
probably going to see this more in Asia
or Africa especially if you're consuming
cereals or legumes and Grains but it
grows as a mold in certain environments
but if you have the Valencia organic
peanut butter uh that one is pretty good
chances are it's not going to have this
apoxin that's the type of peanut butter
that I consume on my celery um also if
you avoid grain I think you're going to
be fine as well now as far as the foods
that are really good for the liver to
help regenerate the liver the
cruciferous vegetables kale broccoli
arugula brussels sprouts bok choy and
the list goes on any of the raw
vegetables are are good for the liver a
moderate amount of uh high quality
grass-fed protein is very healthy for
your your liver eggs are good because
it's high in choline which is good to
help reduce fat on the liver also um
anything with like omega-3 fatty acids
like caler oil as well as fish salmon
are really good for the liver as well
refined food is not good for the liver
especially if it's cooked okay or
preserved now if you're not already
signed up on my newsletter at drberg.com
I'm going to share with you a lot of
information that you will not find on
YouTube so so if you want to check it
out I put the link down below I will see
you on the other
side
