i' like to share some very tasty and
super healthy six delicious salad
dressings that will supercharge your
health now what prompted me to do this
video is a while ago um I went to this
event where a five-star Chef cooked for
us and we were participating in the
cooking and so I was in charge of making
the salad dressing and so I asked them
well okay what do I do he says uh just
go ahead and wing it there's some spices
over there go ahead and make it I'm sure
it'll be fine I don't have a lot of EXP
in this topic I usually just use two
ingredients olive oil and bomic
vinegarette so I started to put a bunch
of things together and then um he came
by and tasted it and he just looked at
me like what the hell did you do and I
said uh I don't know I just uh threw
some things together he goes Eric it's
obvious it's obvious to make this says I
said no it's not obvious to make
something taste good you have to have
the combination of certain herbs and
things or else it could be a disaster
problem with cell dressings is trying to
find one that is edible that doesn't
have all these high Omega 6 fatty acids
I mean it's really hard to find
something just with pure olive oil even
the ones with olive oil have additional
oils so the benefit of adding olive oil
to your salad is this a lot of the
phytonutrients in salad like these very
important
health-promoting chemicals in Plants
especially salad go Way Beyond just
vitamins and minerals the pH nutrients
or the phytochemicals in salad are fat
cble which means we need to eat them
with some type of fat or oil and I'm
going to recommend use a high quality
extra virgin olive oil so these six
salad dressings that I'm going to talk
about uh will add some additional health
benefits that go Way Beyond just the
salad itself now of course salad is
loaded with potassium magnesium folate
vitamin C as well as all these
phytonutrients but the salad dressing
itself can really take it to the next
level so these salad dressings that I'm
going to recommend are all wrapped
around this base of extra virgin olive
oil lemon juice and apple cider vinegar
and then what you do is you put this
mixture this base in a 16 oz mason jar
in your fridge so every time you eat a
salad you take out this mixture and in a
little bowl you take about a four of a
cup or you know up to a half of a cup
depending on how big your salad is then
you add your spices mixx it up and pour
it on your salad so let's first talk
about this base that you're going to
make okay this this these three
ingredients what are the ratios it comes
out to a third of a cup of extra virgin
olive oil a four of a cup of apple cider
vinegar and 2 tablespoons of lemon juice
so let's first talk about the first uh
combination this could be called the
apple cider vinegarette you're going to
add one tablespoon of mustard some
people use Dion you'll take one clove of
garlic minced a pinch of sea salt and a
dash of pepper mix it up pour it on your
salad all right so the next combination
is the French style dressing we're going
to add one teaspoon of dried Teragon
half a teaspoon of dried thyme a four of
a teaspoon of dried lavender and a pinch
of ground pepper very delicious another
one to try is the Italian version for
this one we're going to use one teaspoon
of dried oregano half a teaspoon of
dried basil a four of a teaspoon of
crushed garlic and just a little pinch
of crushed red pepper so I really like
that combination very delicious all
right next one Mediterranean with this
one you're going to use one teaspoon of
dried rosemary half a teaspoon of dried
mint a four of a teaspoon of sumac with
just one little pinch of sea salt all
right just to keep things interesting
let's give you two more uh this one is
the Asian version for this one you're
going to add to the base 1 teaspoon of
toasted sesame seeds 1 half of a
teaspoon of dried Ginger 1/4 of a
teaspoon of crushed pepper corn and a
splash of tamari and let's not forget
the Indian version okay for my friends
in India for this one we're going to add
to the base one teaspoon of ground
coriander 1/2 teaspoon of ground
turmeric 1/4 of a teaspoon of ground
cinnamon with a pinch of dried cardamom
so I think these six recipes will keep
keep things very interesting for you
it'll actually keep the variety there if
you have not seen my video on the
quantity of salad that a person should
be consuming which is 7 to 10 cups you
really need to watch this one right here
