here it goes another lie we've been told
about certain foods and this topic is on
gluten-free anytime something that says
gluten-free it's perceived as being
healthier right you got Honey Nut
Cheerios gluten-free frosted Cheerios
gluten-free and the reason I want to do
this video is I hear this all the time
I'm on a gluten-free diet I'm eating
less gluten but there's a couple things
I want to mention number one what are
they replacing that gluten with well we
have sugar corn starch this is the stuff
that use in ironing to make your clothes
very very stiff but would you ever eat
cornstarch by itself no so in the kind
breakfast we have brown rice flour cane
syrup 29 G of carbohydrate pres serving
there's a lot of carbohydrates in here
and if you look at the fine print for
this one it's it contains
bioengineered food ingredients that is a
nice way of saying it's GMO so gluten is
the only protein that humans cannot
Digest and over the years we've added
more and more gluten to the diet it's
created a lot of problems with gut
inflammation my main point is that
gluten-free is not any healthier at all
they're still loaded with seed oils
sugar and starches and sometimes it's
not even corn starch it'll save food
starch because then they can use other
types of starches we know gluten
destroys the gut okay but these refined
starches and sugars actually also
destroy the gut the good bacteria prefer
fiber but the bad bacteria it will
thrive on refined sugars in starches so
when you're dumping all this extra
carbohydrate into the digestive system
you are creating an overgrowth of bad
bacteria and when this bad bacteria
breaks down and dies a lot of times it
releases a byproduct and this byproduct
is very very toxic and this creates a
whole chain reaction of inflammation of
the liver a fatty liver in fact so many
people have skin issues inflammation of
the skin it's called dermatitis and so
they use creams and lotions and potions
and all these other things but they're
not looking deep into the gut because
there's a big disconnect between what's
going on in the gut and your skin and if
you have too much bad bacteria in your
gut your Skin's going to be terrible
it's going to have a lot of issues
that's problem number one the second
thing I want to talk about is how do
they remove this gluten protein from the
grain do they just add water to it and
kind of let it just dissolve no they add
several chemicals
enzymes acids to extract the protein
from the Grain and what are we left with
a more highly refined product so if it
was refined before now it's really
refined you also have to realize what
starch is starch is basically sugar it's
a chain of sugar molecules connected
together it will create more of a blood
sugar effect than actual sugar so in
your mind if you think that starches are
healthier than sugars no starches worse
than sugar on the glycemic index because
they spike your blood sugar so they have
gluten-free cookies gluten-free bread
gluten-free crackers and granola bars so
just don't buy the concept that they're
any healthier at all the other
interesting thing about gluten-free
products is it's just low in protein
protein is the thing that satisfies us
the problem is there's just such low
protein in this we'll just keep eating
it and eating it because there's nothing
to satisfy us this creates overeating
this creates Cravings two of the common
ingredients that they use in gluten-free
products would be rice flour and tapioca
flour because both of those don't have
gluten in it but let's just talk about
rice flour rice has a unique ability to
bind with arsenic in the soil it's a
poison so on top of all the
carbohydrates and sugars we have extra
added arsenic gluten-free was supposed
to initially help us with digestive
problems it's going to give us something
called small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth these pathogens that are
growing in the small in intin compete
with the good bacteria they basically
grab and eat up your vitamins and
minerals and in their minds lot of times
they think that well fiber is going to
help them so the more fiber they consume
boy the worse that they get because
they're going to get fermentation that
normally should be in the large
intestine happening in the small
intestine and all that inflammation over
a period of time if they continue to do
it is going to create a lot of
inflammation leaky gut and whatever is
going on in the gut is going to be
happening up here here too so mentally
you're going to be moody you're going to
have a lower emotion you might have
anxiety you might have depression and
all of that is coming from the gut now
I've talked to a lot of patients who had
sibo in the past and it's interesting
because when they get an antibiotic for
maybe some other reason they feel
wonderful it's the thing that really
solves they're bloating and so they
might think that's a good thing so they
want to get another antibiotic but the
reason why it's working it's killing up
bacteria but it's killing off the good
and the bad certain types of other
bacteria start to grow in large amounts
especially yeast and especially candida
and this is why one of the side effects
from antibiotics is a Candida infection
a yeast infection now we have nothing in
there to keep those bad guys in check
they get out of control so a person
normally will feel better after the
antibiotic but then over time they get
worse and so they go on another
antibiotic they feel better and it gets
worse to the point where these anti
iotics don't work anymore these microbes
have developed this resistance and now
the next round of antibiotics don't work
anymore because they have such an
altered microbiome they no longer have
the diversity of microbes now they have
a hard time digesting anything they have
certain allergies it might develop an
autoimmune disease one way to develop an
overgrowth of unfriendly bacteria is to
consume a lot of gluten-free ingredients
another way is take antibiotics the
solution is if you see something that's
gluten-free read the actual ingredients
and yes you may need to avoid gluten but
don't get another product that has even
worse ingredients I'd highly recommend
taking all grains in general and all
seed oils and all sugars and put them
way over here put them to the side start
eating Whole Foods like meats and
vegetables but if the fiber from the
vegetables make things worse where you
feel bloated you may need to do the
carnivore diet for a few months to get
things back in check but here's the
thing when someone does a carnivore diet
they're eliminating a lot of things that
can create problems with the small
intestine so they're going to feel a lot
better the question we still have is can
you do this long term we don't know
should we go back to some Fiber and at
what point we don't know but what we do
know is there's probably missing
microbes that created the problem in the
first place the inability to digest
fiber for example because that's what
microbes do they help break down fiber
we don't have the ability to break down
fiber if you have any problems with
digesting fiber we know there's missing
microbes probably from an antibiotic or
it could be from just eating this crap
right here in which case you have to put
these microbes back into the gut one way
to do it is to start consuming more
fermented foods now this could be
fermented dairy unless you're allergic
to Dairy like raw cheese or kefir or
yogurt but also Al fermented vegetables
like sauerkraut kimchi pickled
vegetables pickles all of those are
excellent because we're on a very
important topic digestion I want to give
you a complete knowledge of how the
digestive system works and for that
information I want you to watch this
video right here check it out
