hi guys I'm gonna show you three ways to
regrow nerve and brain tissue this is
really cool there's something called
neurogenesis which is the creation of a
new nerve and it's stimulated by
something called brain derived
neurotrophic factor BDNF okay you don't
really need to know that now we're going
to go into how to trigger it but this is
what happens when you stimulate this
factor it's similar to growth hormone in
the body which is anti-aging you can
actually regrow brain cells you can
increase protective pathways of the
nervous system you can diminish and
protect yourself against damaging
pathways that cause dementia which is
oxidative damage you can actually even
build synapses dendrites which are part
of the nerve increased memory learning
cognitive enhancement and overall mood
elevation okay so the three ways to do
it
you guessed it Kido lowering your carbs
because increasing the carbs will shut
this down okay getting the carbs way
down doing keto intimate fasting if you
actually can go at least 18 hours to 23
hours of fasting ok so just shoot for 18
I think that'll be a good start don't
don't start 23 right off the bat but
intermittent fasting will definitely
kick this in high gear and number three
very specific types of exercises not
just general exercise the top exercise
that will help increase this is
sprinting yeah
sprinting is the ultimate exercise to
enhance and boost this compound so you
would do an all-out flat out as hard as
you can
30-second sprint and then you dressed
for 90 seconds and then do it again back
and forth of course when you're just
starting out maybe only do it once or
twice because you don't want to over
train or hurt yourself or if you have a
bad knee or something but it's the
ultimate exercise for maximum stress on
your body so you create this stress by
activating all these muscles and then
you stopped after 30 seconds let your
body recover a little bit and
you probably wouldn't want to do that
every day you'd probably wanna do that
maybe once or twice a week but that
actually is one of the best exercises to
stimulate this comp and I'm going to put
some research down below and i really
like sprinting because it's high
intensity short duration as long as you
can recover from that and not over train
I think it's the ultimate exercise to
not just stimulate this compound but
human growth hormone as well all right
thanks for watching hey if you like
helping people as much as I do press the
share button and let's get this
information way out there
