hi guys in this video I want to talk
about the relationship between vitamin C
in iron I had a couple questions related
to being a vegan and the difference
between heme iron and non heme iron okay
because you have heme iron which comes
from animal sources and of course they
didn't want to consume those sources
they want to do plant sources of iron
but non heme plant sources of iron don't
absorb as well they're not bile
available like heme iron okay so there
is something you could do to increase
the absorption rate and that would be
vitamin C okay but not synthetic vitamin
C I would get it from lemons not lemon
juice but actual lemons that you would
have to cut open and squeeze okay or
berries you could do berries like
blackberry and raspberry would be the
best source of vitamin C or bell peppers
so when you're consuming a vegan source
of iron okay just make sure you add some
vitamin C to spike the absorption so
when you're getting your iron from
vegetables or legumes or nuts or seeds
make sure at the same time you consume
the lemons the bearers of bell peppers
foods that are high in vitamin C to
increase absorption and just make sure
that you don't consume these iron
sources like ferric oxide or ferric
hydroxide which normally come in a pill
form with a bunch of other synthetic
vitamins alright thanks for watching
so if you don't have this book you might
want to check it out it's entitled it's
not lose weight to get healthy it's get
healthy to lose the weight healthy
ketosis and in a minute fasting check it
out I put a link down below
