so I wanted to create a short video on
something called Keitel flu as you're
transitioning from sugar burning to
fat-burning sometimes you get this
symptom now what's interesting is the
symptoms from Kido flu
to an actual flu which is virus are very
similar okay
headache lethargy fatigue muscle
weakness chills nausea loss of appetite
okay cue to flu has nothing to do with a
virus okay it really has to do with the
symptoms of low sodium kind it's called
hypo and a tree meow you didn't need to
know that but it's basically low sodium
you can get this condition also by
drinking too much water and not enough
salt so if you're doing the ketogenic
diet and drinking massive quantities of
water that can actually speed up the
loss of sodium and actually create more
of these symptoms because in general the
ketogenic diet does cause more sodium
loss so we don't want to combine them
with too much water I think the best
solution is to drink when you're thirsty
and make sure you include at least one
teaspoon of sea salt every single day
okay so that's going to be important to
get rid of these symptoms pretty fast
especially if you have a headache okay
if you're doing this now if your salt
sensitive and you have high blood
pressure and the doctors are saying oh
you can't do salt blah blah blah another
way to get your sodium is through baking
soda and I don't recommend this for
everyone and especially because it can
tends to be alkaline and it can dilute
the stomach acid but if you're gonna do
it on a fasting period it will increase
sodium okay but it will not increase
blood pressure so you would take about
an eighth of a teaspoon a day two to
three times a day to get the sodium you
need to get rid of these symptoms okay
but generally speaking I don't recommend
this but only in this situation alright
thanks for watching so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story
yet so click the link down below and
upload you before and after I want to
actually hear about your success story I
want to see your before-and-afters and
every week we do featured success
stories so click
link down below and share your success
