hey Dr bur here in this video we're
going to talk about cholesterol I want
to give you the facts about cholesterol
right now there's a huge push to put
everyone in cholesterol medication and
to drive down the cholesterol way way
way I think is too low a normal
cholesterol is 200 that's the top level
200 about 20 years ago it used to be 225
so they keep lowering it down to 150
they're trying to get it down to 100 and
even if it is normal people stay in the
medication because they think well just
as a preventative thing because they're
concerned about cholesterol clogging the
arteries but let's just take a look at
about what cholesterol really really is
cholesterol is a precursor it's a
building block to all the sex hormones
testosterone estrogen
progesterone um cortisol so when you cut
this thing out or cut it down too far
you basically starve off your hormones
you start having problems with estrogen
progesterone
uh testosterone things like that and
that's why men that take uh cholesterol
loow medication they end up with low tea
well you need cholesterol to build it up
the other thing that people don't
realize is that sugar and refined
carbohydrates especially breads pasta
cereal crackers biscus waffles pancakes
all convert into cholesterol um yes
that's where it really comes from so
what we should be doing is adjusting
that not digesting this cholesterol also
acts as a Band-Aid so it helps heal the
arteries the reason why it goes in the
arteries in the first place is there's
some type of inflammation or something
that needs to be healed and cholesterol
comes in there and forms a little bit of
a a Band-Aid um but guess what causes
the inflammation High insulin from the
sugar people
eat other fact is that 90% of the
cholesterol is recycled so if
cholesterol was so bad why does our body
recycle it it's get it gets recycled
through the gallbladder and the liver
and even the intestines so in the
gallbladder you have something called
bile that helps to break down
cholesterol people that don't have a
gallbladder or have a liver problem or
don't have enough bio their cholesterol
will tend to build up and they even get
a fatty liver so what do we do try to
lower the cholesterol why not just give
the person some bile salts to help break
down to to balance this cholesterol they
don't do that all the cells on your body
need cholesterol the eye needs
cholesterol the retina needs cholesterol
these are some facts that you need to
know um to explain to your doctor and to
know yourself before you start jumping
on the the medication because there's
things that you can do naturally I would
start with eliminating the sugar and
maybe even supporting the liver or
getting some bile salts and then if it
comes back to normal then why take the
medication because there's a lot of side
effects so I just want to briefly cover
the facts about cholesterol hope that
helped and I'll see you in the next
video
