[Music]
hey guys dr. Berg here I have another
really awesome Skype for you this is
Shane Jones so welcome Shane exactly
right
thanks for doing this hey why don't you
just dive in and tell us a little bit
about your story of what happened your
struggles and then how you kind of
overcame them over time sure yeah
so I've struggled with my weight pretty
much my entire life I grew up in a
Filipino household so that meant a lot
of rice a lot of starches a lot of
desserts a lot of like sweetly marinated
meats and I grew up you know learning
that you know you had to finish
everything on your plate and so I think
all of that you know sort of predisposed
me to gain a weight when I was a kid and
so I pretty much just gained weight up
until about high school and I think when
I hit high school because I became
involved in a lot of high intensity
sports
and a lot of running that the weight
sort of plateaued and then we as a
little kid will you ever wait or did you
start gaining weight like when you got
into high school no so I've been gaining
weight I was big when I was like four or
five and then I just got bigger until I
reached high school sort of plateaued
doing some sports and then it wasn't
until after college that I started
ballooning up again when the activity
sort of dwindled so now do you have any
brothers and sisters yeah I have you did
they would they overweight when there
are five and six too so it's two of us
are or were two of us were overweight
when we were kids and then the other two
were like sort of skinny the whole time
so it's just kind of half this is
interesting I'm going to talk about this
because every time you know I talk to
people that have been overweight their
whole life I'm always interested what
so can you tell tell me what age was it
at five or was it at four was it at
three did you start to notice in your
pictures you started gaining weight 24
and that was like about the same with my
younger my youngest sister - okay so now
the question is you know it's not normal
for a little kid to gain weight unless
there's something that happened was
there any anything that happened for
example did you have asthma or any type
of things were you had that your parents
gave you medication steroids that before
that was there anything like that I'm
not sure for me but my youngest sister
she had asthma and she also takes when
she she has autism so she took like
abilify and like just medications that
made her more lethargic and hungry so I
think for her her weight gain was much
more rapid than mine just because she
had those medications - with anything
when you were 3 or 4 years old like
tonsillectomy and sinus issues throat
infections anything like that oh I got
my tonsils taken out pretty early but
I'm not sure if it was that early but
yeah I did get my tonsils taken out when
I when I was kid okay was there anything
else that you recall that occurred just
before you started gaining weight mmm
not that I can remember okay with other
people when I interview them
definitely when they have the tonsils
removed or have some type of virus or
something somehow that seems to affect
the metabolism that can do it as well
but for you you're not sure but you
should keep looking at like keep maybe
ask your parents was there anything that
happened it would be just interesting to
find out what one client I had she's
tried everything to lose weight I'm
talking everything in fact if she
doesn't eat she doesn't even lose weight
if she doesn't eat she's done marathons
triathlons she's tried every diet
nothing comes off and she's been weight
overweight her whole life so her husband
brought her in very skeptical because
they tried so many things so what I did
is I worked on her immune system
I didn't even change her diet I work
immune system it was the only time in
her life where she started to finally
lose weight a little bit each week well
and then after about six weeks she was
at about 1.7 pounds lost per week and
she stayed there for six months like
obviously so that's just kind of a side
note for those of you that are watching
that happened to have been overweight
your whole life you know you always have
to look at other things too now getting
back to your story so you're in high
school you started becoming more active
you lost weight and then I guess in
college you starting anyway yeah so one
it's funny because after I thought my
weight sort of would stabilize after
puberty because that's in high school
after I went through puberty I was
normal normal weight and then you know
as I went through college and you know
started tapering down on the activity
and not really paying attention to what
I was eating it just sort of sort of
crept up behind me and it wasn't I
didn't really even notice how big I had
got until about a year after I graduated
when I got a physical and I had all
these like issues with my weight and my
blood sugar and my blood pressure that
my doctor told me I should start you
know paying attention to that it wasn't
until much after what did you have did
you have like what kind of conditions
did they find well so my doctor told me
that you know I was pre-diabetic and
that I was pre hypertensive and that she
wanted to run a lipid panel and check my
blood glucose and stuff and that they
were all indicating that I was on the
track to you know become diabetic and
hypertensive so I wasn't too surprised
about the pre-diabetes because my
they've run said my dad's had a family
but I mean it just was kind of weird to
hear at 23 like I didn't expect that to
be a thing right and then did you go
through a lot of stress in college yeah
that's funny because you mentioned
stress because I actually the first
video I stumbled upon of yours was the
adrenal body type
and how people this body type manage
stress and how that affects their weight
gain and where you gain weight and I
just like made a lot of sense that you
know that was a body type that I had but
yeah I'm really prone to stress and I'd
like work it's it's a process to manage
it what what did you study in college
biology biology yeah awesome okay so now
that you graduated then you started
becoming more sedentary and you started
game or weight and then what happened at
that point yeah so there was there was
some there's an event with that um one
of my younger sisters she played
volleyball and then we had a sort of
like gathering afterward and there were
like all these games at the park and
like I couldn't like my knee my right
knee gave out and I just felt really
were like why like I guess I would just
I haven't been used to running for a
while and I felt really out of shape and
I was like maybe it's because of all the
weight that I've become sort of my
mobility is you know taking a turn and
then so at that point I was I figured I
should start losing weight because I
didn't want my mobility to be even more
hindered by the weight how much did you
weigh that's when it started what did
you weigh at that point at your peak to
44 okay and I'll totally I think are
anything I'm 510 okay and in college I
weight like that when I was in shape I'd
say like 175 there's no wow yeah and
where did you hold the weight mainly
around my gut and my like thighs so just
kind of in the middle section pretty
much yeah Wow okay so you're at your
peak you're over 200 pounds and what
happened at that point so it was really
weird because I so throughout my life
I've tried lots of different diets per
se and you know they work to some extent
and then I gain I'm back so I I was
really worried about going on another
crash diet
because I like I knew enough that that
wasn't gonna be the the solution so I
wanted some kind of lifestyle change
that would help me manage my weight and
I wasn't really concerned with how fast
or how long it would take to get there
so the first thing I did was just take
it easy I tried making easy lifestyle
changes that would be easy to make so
then I could make them long-term so you
know instead of eating out like five or
six times a week like I was doing cut it
down so I tried doing that kind of stuff
and then I stumbled at this point when I
was doing the lifestyle changes I did
stumble upon keto but the science made
sense to me it just there was a fear
that eating more fat to me because I was
so big already was not gonna be in my
best interest so uh it wasn't because
the science didn't make sense it was
because I just had a fear that I would
gain more weight and I was already
overweight and that would be
counterproductive to what I wanted so I
held off on keto for a while
found intermittent fasting and actually
did in a minute fasting first just made
a little bit more sense to me at that
point lost some weight then after a
month I kind of stalled and then at that
point I figured I would try keto and
keto was really hard for me it took me
probably like two or three weeks to
fully have every all the meals in my day
to be keto I felt like my body just
really needed the carbs all the time so
I had to wean myself off took a while
Wow so did you so you started working
this out and then at that point did you
find my videos or was it after that you
found no yes so I found your vid I found
your videos before and I didn't start
doing keto until intermittent fasting
sort of plateaued me if that makes sense
yeah so then I try Tito and I've been on
keto since so it's been like six seven
months Wow yeah and so here you're on
keto you're combining them and then you
finally kind of
[Music]
got used to it and we will you then like
you're eating obviously a little bit
more fat because you had to replace with
something and then do did you find that
you started were you surprised in any
way that eating more fat would help you
lose weight
yeah so I think what I was scared scared
was is that you know fat it has more
calorie content so I was eating like the
same amount of meals with more fat I
would just be eating more calories and
like my whole equation would be off but
after you know after you eat a keto meal
like you're not hungry for a long period
of time so it ended up not being that
much of a factor so and so that's what I
was most surprised about so do you so
tell me how the weight started coming
off what did it come off gradually right
so I think once I hit once I started
keto the weight came down it was like
kind of fast like in a downward slope
and now it's pretty gradual like staying
at the same point so I think the first
month I did keto I dropped like 15
pounds and then after that it's been
pretty steady in - and right now I'm
just kind of maintaining where I'm at
and what do you weigh right now right
now like 188 Wow that's awesome
do you want to lose any more are you
happy with where you're at um I'm pretty
happy where I'm at like all of the
markers that you know the triglycerides
and high blood pressure and everything
is in normal ranges now so that that was
my main goal and I think the best part
about keto is that it doesn't feel like
a diet to me at this point it's more
like a lifestyle so I mean I'm happy
where I'm at I have no health to need to
get any lower but so that so doing a pre
diabetic thing all that stuff is
improved yeah yeah so I think my trick
was starts before we're like close a
little bit over a hundred and now
they're in the 70s my blood pressure was
like 135 over
five now it's like 120 over 80
so every all the markets are pretty much
improved that's awesome and then what
was your - you were into biology but
what was your actual degree - you
specialize in toxicology okay yes like
the environment and how toxins play a
role interesting I'll have to talk to
you later right now but the the question
so you must have taken you you had to
have taken a lot of different courses
probably on body physiology right would
you have to go into that so you probably
were indoctrinated or just basically
taught that its calories calories in
calories out is that been kinetic yeah
yeah and you know it took me a long time
to switch my thinking from you know this
caloric you know issue to a hormone
issue look at that that was like the
biggest like once that hit it made a lot
more sense to me but it took me a long
time to buy into that right especially
since bad has the most calories per gram
so you know octo you're gonna eat fat
you're gonna gain weight so so looking
back now that you have this data looking
back at it where you were before
what are what are some of the what's the
number one key thing that you didn't
really get or understand back then that
now you understand that's like the mist
that was the missing link for you it's
just as far as the physiology point yeah
so I think the biggest thing for me was
that eating fat would help promote you
know fat loss and that it would in the
sense that it wouldn't trigger as much
of an insulin spike I just I just missed
the whole endocrinology part of it all
and I was too focused on you know the
equation of energy and versus energy out
and now I feel so I feel a little bit
dumb talking about it because it makes
so much sense to me now
but that was the biggest part for me
well it's it's not even your father's
just of the whole schooling system and
all the universities including the the
grad school that I went to and the
pre-med school is all it's just it's
filled with false data and they don't
connect the dots between physiology
anatomy and metabolism it's it's kind of
all separate and people are just fed
this data but it's you don't have a
chance to apply it to see if it's true
or not so a lot of stuff you learn isn't
you don't even know if it's true or you
just have to pass the test and get
through it get your decay and like wow
okay you don't know if it works or not
but yeah I I had to go back and re study
it from a different viewpoint to see
okay let me just forget everything that
I learned let's does this really work
okay yeah that works this doesn't work
but yeah that's one thing that's missing
I think is the workability the
application of these basic things
especially when it comes down to the
endocrine system and insulin I mean even
in look a lot of my friends who are
medical doctors they same thing they
don't they don't have the basic data on
insulin in fact it's almost scary to
know even some of the endocrinologists
don't even understand endocrinology that
well i've talked to some of them and
they don't didn't really connect the
dots with insulin being you know the
main fat making hormone all it's not
even in their in their space that's
pretty weird
so yeah so shifting gears to toxicology
like I'm just curious like here you are
you got into toxicology did they cover a
lot of like data on endocrine disrupters
when you were in school was that yeah we
had we had sections on that mainly was
it was issues with pollutants in the air
and how that can affect populations of
people but also the environment and life
so and did they cover any data about
phase 1 phase 2 detoxification the liver
with the set of cytochrome for 50p
hormone I mean the enzymes and all the
different detoxification systems in the
liver to help detoxify do they get into
that very much yeah I'm like when you
said cytochrome p450 like I immediately
recognize the name if I were to try to
recall what you know that process is I
probably can
do it on top of my head so is this kind
of like it was the data but they didn't
really give you systems to go hey here
are the foods that you should be eating
these probably didn't get into that oh
no no it was much more you know these
are this is what happens in the liver
when toxins you know come in nothing
related really to nutrition and how that
impacts the whole system because there's
a disconnect between toxicology and just
general medicine there's not there's a
complete disconnect they don't connect
it and then the last question is did
they cover glyphosate herbicide in GMO
foods and all that they do they talk
about that or oh yeah we had section on
on GMOs and the use of herbicides and
pesticides and there I think when I
learned it it's it was still a big
debate sort of what was going on so what
we did was mainly read different papers
and sort of debate between each other
yeah yeah because right now I think I
don't know if you heard about the
class-action suit that the the attorney
no the judge actually released the
papers and on this case and it's
interesting because the apparently there
was ghost riders that were writing the
articles kind of fudging the research
and you know Nene you're so political
they put it out there in the
universities and then you don't really
get the truth on that so that's probably
why I didn't really hurt hear a lot
about it but anyway getting back to you
this is awesome but you did really well
are you adding exercise into your
program at all yeah yeah so right now I
worked out uniforms a week weight
training mainly I walk but I don't do a
ton of like kind at City cardio or
anything great
and then what tell me what how many
meals that you have a day one wow that's
awesome yeah but I I my window is about
four hours so I have a meal I can't like
scarf it all down like thirty minutes so
I kind of graze a little bit for a
couple hours but yeah just one it's
totally fine and then
tell me what you eat so it's a lot of
leafy greens and a lot of chicken but
I've been experimenting with using like
cauliflower and turning that into like a
dough for pizza and stuff it just I feel
like there's a lot of options out there
but I'm just like a person of habit so
I'll get a bunch of greens and then I'll
put like apple cider vinegar with some
mustard and some salt and pepper and
just kind of be happy with that so
that's great that's awesome Shane I
think you've done really well and I
think pretty much almost every single
one of my Skype interview so far
everyone has been on a one meal a day
which is kind of surprising but I think
it's as you do this all of a sudden it's
like you're not your hunger goes away
and you're like I'm not really that
hungry and you're satisfied so I find
even people that are almost if they eat
too much they feel nauseous it's like
it's just like okay I don't really need
that so yeah yeah so there has to be a
point where you know you get all your
nutrients in in your one meal so guys
take it in yeah that's right well this
is awesome Shane thank you so much for
the interview I think it's gonna help
other people just to get another
viewpoint of what to do okay so this is
yeah thanks for calling and have a
wonderful afternoon eat you okay see ya
