there are quite a few nighttime signs of
diabetes that you should know about and
it's very important to recognize what
your body's trying to tell you because
so many people ignore these signs and
they end up having more damage with your
organs especially the kidneys the first
one is getting up frequently at night
urinating this is called noctua you have
too much sugar in your blood and the
kidneys filter the blood and the body is
naturally trying to get rid of this
excess sugar because it's toxic and the
other thing to know is that wherever the
sugar goes water goes with it and so as
it's getting rid of the sugar it's also
getting rid of your fluids making you
dehydrated I remember in practice one
guy uh was getting up and I'm not
kidding 10 times a night I mean talk
about a symptom that can destroy your
life because he was so tired all day
long and I told him this symptom was
completely unnecessary we told him what
to do which I'm going to tell you what
to do and this device corrected the
problem within 3 days and he was able to
sleep through the night from there on
out and so this leads us with the number
two which is excessive thirst now of
course being a diabetic you're going to
be dehydrated so you're going to
constantly need water to hydrate
yourself but the other thing to realize
that when you're a diabetic or you have
high sugar you're also naturally going
to retain sodium and so if your body is
going to hold this salt it's also going
to need more water and so you have this
feedback loop where you're drinking all
this water you're urinating excessively
which then creates dehydration caus you
to drink more and this keeps going
around and round and round when you're
getting rid of the water you're also
getting rid of potassium magnesium
calcium but for some reason you tend to
retain more sodium okay the next symptom
is restless leg syndrome I had this and
of course I was consuming a pint of Ben
and& Jerry's every single night for over
a year little did I know all that sugar
was depleting a key vitamin called B1
when you're deficient in B1 you start
building up a lot of what's called
lactic acid in your muscles where your
muscles won't get the oxygen and it
becomes is very very fatigued and so you
don't want lactic acid build up in your
muscles when you're sleeping because
you're going to feel very restless
you're not going to have the oxygen in
your legs and so your legs are just
going to feel very energetic another
connection with this restless leg is a
magnesium deficiency which you nearly
always see with people with high blood
sugars and without magnesium the muscles
cannot feel relaxed and be calm it's a
B1 and magnesium deficiency because the
person is usually consuming too many
refined carbs or sugars and so they can
take a lot of bwan and temporarily feel
better but unless they get rid of the
sugars uh it just keeps coming back now
the next symptom does relate to restless
leg syndrome but it's more with problems
in your lower feet this is called
peripheral neuropathy which you have
this it could be burning on the bottom
of the feet it can be pain it can be
numbness it could be any type of weird
sensation at the bottom of your feet and
the reason why why it gets worse at
night is because you're lying down flat
and you're getting more um pooling of
blood which is going to create a little
more pressure on the nerve endings which
are damaged the remedy for peripheral
neuropathy is really twofold one is it's
a type of B vitamin called botam with
alphalipoic acid together it's a really
powerful combination now the next
symptom is also related to this it's
cramps in your lower legs or your feet
because someone has too much sugar in
the blood and that creates a magnesium
deficiency and when you don't have
enough magnesium calcium starts building
up inside the cell and calcium is all
about muscle contraction not muscle
relaxation magnesium is more about
muscle relaxation so when you have this
imbalance of not enough magnesium and
too much calcium in the wrong place
you're going to get cramping in your
lower legs or feet the type of magnesium
I would recommend is magnesium glycinate
because it also helps you sleep at the
same time now the next symptom I want to
talk about is this excessive sweating at
night usually in the face the neck or
upper part of the body and I'm not going
to confuse this with a different
condition night sweats or hot flashes
because of menopause this is different
this is a situation where a person is
just sweating at night for no reason
it's not even necessarily too hot and
this is because the blood sugar problem
puts that person in a state of fight or
flight mode this is called sympathetic
dominance it's a part of the nervous
system that is more of a adrenaline type
stress State and because adrenaline is
activated the person starts activating
more sweat as a compensation mechanism
and so when you have this blood sugar
issue your body's going to be under more
stress now this can occur also with low
blood sugar because adrenaline is
activating and tring to raise the blood
sugar but it can also occur from high
blood sugar as well all right the next
condition is sleep apnea this is a
situation where you don't have enough
oxygen because there's some type of
obstruction of air in the back of the
throat or the sinuses this is a classic
diabetic symptom it usually occurs
because the person has a lot of insulin
that is pumping through their body
doctors never measure it but it's
related to something called insulin
resistance where the body is trying to
protect you from too much toxic from
glucose or sugar and because insulin
controls this whole thing it creates
this resistance to insulin and so the
door is uh blocked but of course the
problem with this is you're going to
gain a lot of weight because you have
this compensating excess amount of
insulin which is a fat storing hormone
now the next symptom has to do with just
hypoglycemia low blood sugar because the
body is going to want to get that Sugar
out of your bloodstream and it does it
with insulin like I said in the previous
symptom your insulin's going to be high
and the high insulin is going to try to
push the blood sugars down so you're
going to wake up in the middle of night
sometimes with low blood sugar and one
of the big problems with that is an
activation of adrenaline so you just
wake up in the middle of night with this
like stress a hormone activation and you
might also have a elevation of this
other hormone called cortisol usually
between 2:00 and 3:00 in the middle of
the night in fact right in the early
morning when the alarm clock is going to
go off that's when you can sleep the
best and this release of sugar is also
accompanied by the production of Sugar
by your liver uh in the early morning
you just need to get on a low carb diet
for a period of time probably longer
than you think to correct it because
sometimes it takes six to eight months
but many times it's not coming from the
diet it's coming from your liver just
making too much sugar because you ate
the wrong foods for many years the next
symptom is delayed sleep
because high levels of sugar they delay
this release of melatonin you'll be
lying down at night and waiting to go to
sleep but you just can't go to sleep
easily the next symptom relates to
gastric reflux or gird where you have to
kind of sleep on this wedge or prop your
pillows up because the acid is
regurgitating from a valve in your
esophagus the reason for that is because
the blood sugar issue is affecting the
autonomic nervous system which controls
the valves of the body including the
valve on the top of the stomach so we're
getting this lack of control I think a
really good solution for that would be
the low carb ketogenic diet as a
necessity but also consuming two meals
the first meal in the morning the second
meal at lunch now the reason that's
going to help you is because you're
getting maybe the same calories but
they're in the first part of the day not
the last part of the day because you're
system is so slow if you eat too late
things just kind of back up the next
symptom is either nightmares or very
vivid dreams those are usually related
to a neurotransmitter problem because
you're very deficient in B1 one of the
big things that deplete you at B1 is
consuming too many carbs or even being a
diabetic and so when my children would
have nightmares they' always want me to
give them some B1 which will handle that
very quickly now the next thing you
might experience is uh a bit of high
blood pressure in the middle of the
night this is called non dipping
typically a person when they go to sleep
should have things slow down pulse right
blood pressure that's called nocturnal
dipping but with diabetes you have
what's called non- dipping it doesn't do
that the blood pressure is just going to
start going up you might not even feel
your blood pressure but you're just
going to feel awake the next symptom
that occurs while you're sleeping with a
blood sugar issue is part
palpitations this is primarily because
of the lack of electrolytes pottassium
deficiency and magnesium deficiency they
would benefit greatly from a good
electrolyte powder with a lot of
magnesium and potassium the next symptom
is teeth grinding the activation of the
flight or fight mechanism or the
sympathetic nervous system puts a person
into a state of stress while they're
sleeping as their jaw muscles are
activated and they're grinding their
teeth and the last symptom is uh a
headache when you wake up in the morning
this usually occurs because you are very
dehydrated and the Brain needs enough uh
fluid to prevent it from having pain and
having pressure realize that it's not
just about drinking more water to
hydrate you you need these electrolytes
with it now that you know the clues the
question is what to do to really correct
this once and for all if you have not
seen this video on what to eat to handle
that check it out I put it right here
