today I'm going to show you seven ways
to stimulate your stem cells without
having to go to a clinic and go through
any surgical procedure or spend
thousands and thousands of dollars a
stem cell is kind of like this Reserve
cell that can pretty much change into
anything that you need they're using it
now to regenerate fibrosis which then
allows the heart muscle function to
improve by 30% they can do the same
thing with liver fibrosis and damage
brain cells they're getting great
results stimulating carage in your joint
some people are using it for autoimmune
diseases like Ms and also to help
rejuvenate skin cells to actually make
the skin young again there's also stem
cells for cancer it's very important to
understand how to keep that stem cell
population at the highest level let's
start with number one fasting
specifically prolonged fasting if you
could fast for 72 hours which is 3 days
you can in a major way boost certain
stem cells Prim
for the gastrointestinal tract for your
brain and your immune system when you're
fasting you're not eating anything
you're just drinking water and you're
basically clearing everything out of
your digestive system and because
there's no food available for the cells
they actually start surviving better and
those stem cells start to repair damage
within your digestive tract and the
other thing that's going on when you're
fasting your body is taking damaged
tissue Recycling and turning that into
new tissue inamin fasting is important
too of course it's not going to be as
potent as fasting longer number two
exercise exercise stimulates stem cells
for your muscles and your brain this is
exercise where it's more intense it's
more difficult you're using your full
body in a functional way to create a lot
of effort or intensity and the most
potent stimulus of the stem cell when
you exercise is intensity if you can do
an intense exercise short duration the
more stem cell you're going to stimulate
when you exercise you're also going to
stimulate something called
bdnf brain Drive neurotropic Factor this
is like Miracle growth for the brain it
allows you to make new nerve cells or
brain cells the other stem cells that
you're going to develop when you
exercise is the stem cells that help
prepare the inside layer of the arteries
called the endothelial layer this is the
layer that becomes damaged and then a
person will develop a clogged artery or
inflammation guess what both fasting and
exercise reduce inflammation so that can
indirectly influence your stem cells we
know as you age the stem cells go down
exercise will preserve that to a certain
degree number three deep quality sleep
when you're sleeping you're increasing
melatonin melatonin increases the stem
cells for your brain of course on the
opposite of that when you you have
insomnia that can inhibit your stem
cells stress inhibits stem cells a
quality sleep can reduce cortisol stress
which can then indirectly increase stem
cells and also deep sleep will increase
your immune system stem cell and this is
probably why when someone's sick the
more sleep they can get because it
allows the body to strengthen the stem
cells lastly with regard to sleep a
quality sleep cycle can improve the stem
cells that help the cardiovascular
system specifically the heart muscle
itself think about it the heart has to
keep beating 24/7 all the time and so it
needs some time to rest well it keeps
beating even when you sleep but with a
really good quality sleep you can
actually at least develop more stem
cells to help rejuvenate the heart
tissue itself and it's interesting that
people that have insomnia have high risk
of getting heart attacks good night rest
can really help your heart number four
green tea specifically a certain
phytonutrient called EG B CG this
chemical in green tea is an
anti-inflammatory green tea which is a
very popular tea around the world has
the potential to increase stem cells for
your brain and for your liver and on top
of that it can decrease the stem cells
for cancer cells which is a good thing
number five omega-3 fatty acids this
would be the fish oils the cive oil now
the big thing people know about these
fish oils is that they're
anti-inflammatory so we already know
know that decreasing inflammation can
increase stem cell but omega-3 has the
ability to increase stem cell for bone
cartilage brain and skin number six
vitamin d slash the sun both the Sun and
especially vitamin D will increase stem
cells and people that are deficient in
vitamin D are going to have a problem
with stem cells and another interesting
function of vitamin D is to help
maintain the blood stem cells that are
involved with your immune Sy system
vitamin D increases new immune cells
vitamin D also prevents the exhaustion
of stem cells specifically of the brain
the immune system and the muscles this
is probably another reason why vitamin D
helps you live longer and then number
seven cold therapy I'm talking about
cold immersion or even a cold shower but
being in the cold stimulates Brown fat
stem cells which has a lot to do with
muscle repair decreasing inflammation
help supporting the mitochondria with
more blood flow in general which brings
more nutrition to the stem cells as well
as boosting a very specific protein I've
already talked about this bdnf braind
drived neurotrophic Factor this is the
Miracle Grow for the brain and it's
pretty well because every time I do the
cold immersion I feel like my brain is
just working so much better personally
I've experienced that it's pretty wild
that cold helps your cognitive function
do better as well as your mood I have
mentioned a few things that destroy the
stem cells inflammation stress lack of
sleep junk food is another thing alcohol
smoking pollution any chronic
inflammation the last point I want to
bring up is this cancer stem cell the
stem cells for cancer act very similar
to certain types of bacteria that do not
need oxygen one way to decrease the stem
cell for cancer is to flood the body
with oxygen and this is why exercise is
so important this is why Hyperbaric
decreases certain types of cancer
because you're going in this tank and
that you're infusing your body with
oxygen because of what oxygen does to
the nature of a stem cell for cancer
adding more oxygen will destroy it and
if we compare those cells to cancer
cells we have a very unique difference
in relationship to genes that protect
against dehydration our cells have at
least 50 different genes that help us
cope with dehydration but the cancer
cells have none of those genes in other
words a cancer cell is more vulnerable
to dehydration than our cells how can we
use this information one of the things
that people do is they do a dry fast
where they're not drinking any water and
they're fasting for a period of time in
fact if you look at the data with dry
fasting you can actually triple your
results apparently it's more destructive
to the cancer cells than our own cells
because we are a little more protected
let's say for example in a given day
you're fasting for 18 hours and you
drank nothing or you ate nothing that
would be an example of intermittent
dehydration we're not actually
restricting the amount of water per day
we're just allocating certain amounts of
water at certain times it's something to
look into and I'm just putting it on
your radar now if you have not seen my
video on dry fasting you should check it
out it's pretty interesting I'll put it
up right here
