hey guys I wanted to do a video on
something called pycnogenol which is a
bark extract which is acquired at the
southwest during part of France so what
is it it's actually a very powerful
phytonutrient that can act as a natural
aspirin and without the side effects
it's been studied for over 40 years and
4000 studies but it's a great
anti-inflammatory it helps protect you
against the damage of diabetes which is
high sugar and high insulin and that's
why it's really good for the eye and the
vascular part of the eye because it's
there studies have shown that it
decreases retinal vein thrombosis which
is clotting without the side effects
improves retinal edema and decreases
clotting in general so there's a couple
ways that I would recommend using this
if you have an inflammatory condition if
you're a diabetic if you have some type
of chronic illness that's related to
high sugars and you have visual issues
then this might be a great thing to take
hey if you like helping people as much
as I do press the share button and let's
get this information way out there
