you may never get high blood pressure
after watching this video the most
important thing to know about blood
pressure is that it is a symptom it's
not a rot cause and in this video we're
going to talk about the root causes
because the problem with hypertension is
that 95% of it is classified as
something called essential high blood
pressure which basically means they
don't really know what causes it might
be caused by you know genetics or
lifestyle we don't know but if you lose
weight and reduce your salt and you
exercise and you stop smoking and you
stop drinking it might go away there's
also a lot of people who don't exercise
and they don't have high blood pressure
and there's a large group of people who
consume a lot of salt and they don't
have high blood pressure and when
someone is put on hypertensive
medication 20% of the time it doesn't
work now why wouldn't that work because
they're treating the symptom they're not
fixing the cause anytime you treat the
symptom without fixing the root cause
you camouflage the problem it continues
now if you have high blood pressure I'm
not telling you to come off your
medication without your doctor's cons
but I want to give you some really
important information that will help you
get to the root of this problem all
right now let's get into the root causes
okay let's start with the big one
vitamin D deficiency there is a hormone
system called the water pressure control
system when this system gets triggered
and it goes up there is a potent vasal
constriction going on in your arteries
basically there's a squeezing of the
arteries and the pressure is going to go
up that is triggered by low vitamin D
this system being being high also causes
a massive retention of sodium wherever
the sodium goes the water goes more
sodium more water more pressure this is
why there's a big push to get everyone
with high blood pressure off of sodium
or on a low sodium diet they would be
much better off giving the person
vitamin D and also increasing their
potassium the more potassium you have
the more sodium you could have potassium
protects you against the excess amount
of sodium people that are salt sensitive
are really potassium deficient and
unfortunately the majority of population
doesn't get enough pottassium because
you need so much you need like 40 700
milligrams every single day no one's
getting that much and also look at how
many people are deficient in vitamin D
it's just off the charts another
interesting point about this is that
your risk of high blood pressure goes up
during the winter why is that the way
the sun is angled at the Earth there's
just not enough UV radiation to create
enough vitamin D in our skin and then we
have this other very important factor
the darker your skin the more you're at
risk for high blood pressure on average
if you have dark skin your risk for high
blood pressure goes up by 2x why does
this happen because melanin in your skin
is a pigment and it acts as a sunscreen
it it blocks you of ultraviolet
radiation making it very difficult to
make vitamin D this is why the darker
your skin the more vitamin D you need to
take or the more sun exposure you need
to have then you get into the genetic
high blood pressure situation well
that's usually associated with a genetic
problem with vitamin D which is
interesting there's a super high
percentage of people that have a genetic
problem with vitamin D that can't absorb
vitamin D that well and they need a lot
more vitamin D so I've even questioned
do we really have a genetic blood
pressure problem or do we have a genetic
problem with vitamin D that's causing
the high blood pressure I mentioned that
95% of all blood pressure problems are
essential which means they're unknown
cause so could be lifestyle it could be
genetic they don't know they just throw
all these lifestyle things in a box and
you know we just don't know but in the
meantime keep taking medication because
until we find out a cause we need to
keep that pressure low then we have this
insulin resistant connection if you
consume a lot of carbs or you're eating
a lot of snacks you develop this
condition called insulin resistance and
this is a precursor for high blood
glucose and it is the root cause of a
fatty liver high blood pressure high
cholesterol belly fat high glucose it's
all just insulin resistance if you're
low in vitamin D your risk for getting
this goes high so that could be one
mechanism why some people that are obese
develop hypertension because the Obesity
is diluting the vitamin D and either
triggering insulin resistance or just
causing high blood pressure directly
vitamin D depends on magnesium magnesium
is essential for vitamin D to work so
these go hand in hand so this is why I
put vitamin D magnesium and pottassium
okay those three right there let's look
at another connection between vitamin D
and soft tissue calcium now you have
this situation where if there's too much
calcium in the arteries your arteries
can get stiff and actually your blood
pressure can go up from there and if you
watch some of my other videos I
recommend taking vitamin K2 to direct
the calcium into the bone or the teeth
and out of the soft tissues and there's
actually even a test called the coronary
artery calcification test which is a
really good indicator or a predictor of
all cause mortality this is why people
with cramps at night or just leg cramps
or feet cramps really they need more
magnesium why magnesium prevents the
calcium from building up in the tissues
also think about women who are
postmenopausal that take calcium
supplements their risk for heart attack
goes up why because you're dumping all
this calcium I mean some women are
taking like 1,200
or500 milligrams of calcium every single
day and sometimes they even take with
vitamin D they're still at risk for
heart problems why because they're
deficient in magnesium magnesium keeps
the calcium from getting too high and
forming clots that's right too much
clotting or a thrombosis they call it
could be coming from too much
calcium also arrhythmias can also be
coming from too much calcium and guess
what magnesium is the antidote to
preventing building up in the arteries
heart attacks all sorts of things and
let's just talk about two medications
they use for high blood pressure calcium
channel blockers which by the way
magnesium is a natural calcium channel
blocker but you can't Patten it so they
use a medication then you also have
something else called beta blockers beta
blockers block adrenaline okay so if
there's too much adrenaline in the body
your blood pressure will go up as well
and take a well guess what a natural
beta blocker is not just magnesium but
vitamin D both of these will naturally
decrease adrenaline now let's roll into
the four things I recommend to correct
the problem if you have high blood
pressure okay vitamin D I would take
10,000 IUS every single day but if
you're trying to correct high blood
pressure take 20 ,000 or even a little
bit more now if you have any thought in
your mind that 20,000 I use is toxic
being on the Sun for about 40 minutes
will give you 20,000 IUS of vitamin D3
so 20,000 is not a toxic level in fact
this is really like half of 1 milligram
of vitamin D3 magnesium very underrated
but it's very important I would
recommend taking magnesium glycinate you
can get a good amount of magnesium from
pumpkin seeds sunflower seeds spinach
other Leafy grains almonds and even
chocolate just make sure you don't have
the chocolate with a lot of sugar
magnesium allows vitamin D to work these
two go hand in hand then I recommend
going on a low carb diet because at the
root of high blood pressure metabolic
syndrome heart disease is too many carbs
and consuming too much sugar and starch
depletes you a vitamin D magnesium and
potassium okay so you need to do that
also potassium is very very important
you can get this from an electrolyte
powder I would recommend taking a high
quality electrolyte powder that has
about a th milligrams of potassium with
other electrolytes but you can also get
potassium from greens but you have to
consume a very large salad every single
day but the greens will also give you
magnesium now to get more details on
this low carb diet you should go to this
video right here
