[Music]
hey guys we're back hi in this video
we're going to make some chocolate chip
cookies now the hardest thing and when
you say we I mean you I'm GNA watch and
I'm GNA be the taster but it's so hard
to get a chocolate chip cookie that
tastes good and make it keto friendly
and low carb it's true it's true the
consistency is a tough one but you know
what ladies and gentlemen I got this
recipe I got this recipe off the almond
flour bag is it
easy it's super easy which apparently I
say in every video but look my point is
just almond flour is so easy to get now
I got mine at Costco four something a
pound and uh the recipe was right on the
bag and I did change a little
something um instead of brown sugar I
make um and Charlie's now playing with
something that is very loud um I make
brown sugar with my white powdered
sweetener and I add just a tiny Touch of
molasses because it's okay right it's
it's like what a quarter teaspoon it's a
a quarter teaspoon I mean a whole
tablespoon of black strap molasses is 14
grams of sugar going be like 0.001 grams
it's below one gram it's GNA it's going
to be okay it's GNA be okay it's yeah
gonna be okay yeah okay did you try it
it's incredible yeah did you oh you took
the taste already took the taste without
is
delicious I love the consistency of this
cookie so do what it's like crumbly but
it's chewy so make sure that you eat it
right away with a
meal okay let's show how to make it with
a meal okay make it
[Music]
oh oh
[Music]
oh yeah right right when do we eat it
right
now
really hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
