so when to take Ginger and when not to
take Ginger that's what we're going to
talk about today Ginger can be a
powerful remedy for so many things it's
been around for thousands of years it's
been used on chips to prevent scurvy
confucious the Chinese philosopher not
just consumed it every day but he
consumed it every single meal in the
14th century a pound of Ginger cost the
same as buying an entire sheep so it was
very expensive Ginger was one of the
first spices to be exported from
Southwest India and ginger has very high
antioxidant levels only to be surpassed
by pomegranate juice now the benefits
I'm going to tell you are based on a
paper that looked at 190 articles on
Ginger from that 43 met highquality
evidence ginger has many many effects
antimicrobial
anti-inflammatory anti-diabetic there's
anti-cancer properties especially col
rectal it's also great for menstrual
pain arthritis increasing HDL as well as
improving heartburn but Ginger's biggest
effect that it's known for is its
ability to get rid of feeling nauseous
so it creates an anti-nausea effect when
you're pregnant going through chemo when
you feel nauseous when you're having a
menstrual cycle as well as after a
surgery I remember when I had my
shoulder surgery I came out of it and I
I felt very very nauseous so anytime you
feel nauseous think Ginger in fact they
compared vitamin B6 to Ginger and Ginger
was more effective than vitamin B6
there's some contraindications that you
need to know about in other words if
you're taking Ginger and you have the
following things I'm going to talk about
you need to stop taking it if you're on
warrin or you're on some type of blood
thinner or Aspirin because Ginger helps
you thin the blood and if you're on a
blood thinner and you're taking Ginger
you're going to thin the blood even more
and also if you have a bleeding disorder
I wouldn't take Ginger now Ginger also
inhibits insulin so if you're taking
insulin you have to be careful because
it's going to bring your blood sugars
down and of course the next question is
if we compare medication to Ginger is
probably less side effects from Ginger
and so why wouldn't you just want to
take that you can talk with your doctor
about that but I mean it just fascinates
me that when I was in practice uh some
people would take Natural Remedies right
while they're taking certain
medications and the doctor get very very
upset because the natural remedies were
interfering with the medications now a
couple other things about Ginger Ginger
tends to lower your blood pressure so if
you're taking blood pressure medication
whether it's a beta blocker or a calcium
channel blocker or a diuretic apparently
Ginger can make your blood pressure go
lower so you might want to consult your
doctor on that one point and lastly
Ginger stimulates the gallbladder you
might not want to take Ginger if you
have gall stones especially if they're
big now since we're on the topic of
natural remedies if you have not seen my
apple cider vinegar and lemon video I
put it up right here check it out I
think you'll enjoy it
