warning do not try this at home I'm
talking about the experiment between
sugar and what sugar does to vitamin B1
and the average person in the US is
definitely doing this experiment
unknowingly and so today we're going to
talk about what this experiment is in
relationship to what high levels of
carbohydrates do to certain nutrients
specifically vitamin B1 and all the
consequences that occur from that and of
course the sugar I'm talking about at
the top of the list is the refined
sugars but not only that there's hidden
sugars like starches a starch is really
sugar if you're consuming the starch
that is in most Foods in the US so it's
a combination of those starches and
sugars that will deplete your B1 and
create all sorts of symptoms that you
might think are connected to something
else but they're merely a vitamin B1
deficiency but let me just touch on my
personal story with sugar and B1 growing
up I lived on a lot of sugar but further
along my 20s I met my future wife we
ended up at a restaurant and we both
consumed a tremendous amount of pasta
pizza wine and one of the waiters was
going past us with a dessert tray and he
said this before I throw these out do
you want to sample any of these desserts
I was raised you never want a waste food
so of course we sampled every single
dessert now as I drove home that night I
had this thought I I think I ate too
much sugar I put my head on the pillow
and what do I hear pounding in my inner
ear just my heart is just pounding like
crazy but you would think I would learn
from that situation no I continue to
consume pasta breads cereals crackers
for several years later and then of
course I had a sleeping problem at that
point so what did I do I created a sugar
coma to sleep every night I had a pint
of Ben and& Jerry's every night before I
went to sleep now that worked to at
least get me to sleep but I woke up
completely with fluid retention which by
the way is a B1 deficiency but what
happens when you eat that much sugar
without the B1 one you get too much
lactic acid and that developed something
called Restless like syndrome as time
went on my health started going down
down down down down to the point where I
had pre-diabetes the inside of my
eyelids were completely like sandpaper
bloodshot I didn't know what that was
obviously I finally figured things out
and here I am today and I don't have a
B1 deficiency anymore but at that time I
was in an experiment just like I think a
lot of people are in the same experiment
right now an average person's diet is
well over 50 to 60 to even 70% refined
carbohydrates but I want to kind of hone
in on this B1 B1 is a fascinating
vitamin and a lot of the
complications that occur from all sorts
of diseases especially type 1 and type
two diabetes is a lot with just the B1
deficiency B1 has everything to do with
supporting a healthy nervous system also
everything to support the fuel to be
turned into energy but I want to kind of
hone in on this B1 deficiency so one of
the first symptoms is nervous tension
irritability restlessness brain fog and
also something called air hunger where
it affects your breathing you're going
to start getting numbness on the bottom
of your feet or the fingertips you might
have Tremors with the hands you might be
very confused also your pulse rate might
be low but then when you actually do
just a little bit of something it goes
way too high personality changes they
have very low tolerance to stress you
see the a lot with alcoholics well
that's because the alcohol really
depletes B1 probably more than sugar
does loss of manual dexterity the
coordination is off headaches insomnia
constipation other than that you're
going to be perfectly fine nothing to
worry about some people will say well
when I eat my junk food it's enriched
with B vitamins let's just talk about
natural versus synthetic B1
unfortunately the top onead days are
synthetically made and the name for the
synthetic version would be thyine mono
nitrate extremely cheap you can buy a
kilogram of this stuff for roughly 30
bucks so when you see a bottle of 100
pills and each one has a 100 Mig of B1
and it only costs $5.50 you have to
realize you're still making a massive
profit the bottle is more expensive than
the material whereas natural B1 is more
expensive because you have to use
natural sources one natural version that
I like is called alamine it's very
different than the synthetic version
it's actually a fat soluble and so it
can penetrate a lot of different tissues
whereas the water soluble one is not
able to penetrate through some of these
fat soluble membranes the synthetic
version is dependent on something called
active transport when it gets absorbed
which means there's a certain protein
that allows it to go into the body
number one it gets saturated pretty
quick so only certain amount goes into
your body also if you have gut problems
because I'm talking about the absorption
in the small intestine anything going on
with the GI system or inflammation
you're going to have a hard time
absorbing the synthetic version of B1
whereas the natural B1 doesn't need
active transport it can go right in so
you can get a lot of it with just small
doses one thing I like about the natural
version it can penetrate the blood brain
barrier when you're taking the synthetic
version and you're also consuming carbs
alcohol chances are you're not going to
get very much absorption when I talked
about B1 helping you make energy it's
this natural version of B1 that really
can help the mitochondria produce more
energy another question that people want
to know is what about Benoy benot toine
is good for something called Advanced
glycation and products now what does
that mean well that's a situation when
you're consuming sugar and carbohydrates
at the same time and with this sugar
connects to the protein and makes the
protein unavailable so it it basically
makes a lot of sticky proteins that clog
everything up in your body so if you're
a diabetic go with the benine the other
thing you should really know is in order
for B1 to work you need to have
co-enzymes and the big one is magnesium
like I said before when you consume too
much carbohydrate and you don't then
compensate by taking more B vitamins
that fuel is not going to be utilized of
course over time all that sugar without
the B1 damages the machine now you're
going to have a hard time using energy
and this is what's behind Alzheimer's
because the neur can no longer get
energy from glucose and many other
tissues and this is why the ketogenic
diet is so important because it bypasses
all that and it gives the body a
different type of fuel from fat not
sugar and it's in a form of kind of a
packaged fat that we can absorb called
ketones now we can start supporting
these cells but you better also increase
the B1 that's deficient or else you
might still have issues let's talk about
the foods that have the most B1 it's not
really vegetables vegetables have some
but they have anti B1 nutrients like
oxalates right that's an anti B1 pork
believe it or not has the most ban and
then beef wheat germ whole grains but I
don't recommend that because that's
going to give you the gluten and the
other issues with the carbs organ meats
eggs fish nuts things like that but fat
and dairy don't have a lot of B1
nutritional yeast that's unfortified has
a good amount of B1 so like I said
before warning do not try this
experiment at home if you are on a high
carbohydrate diet go on a low
carbohydrate diet also make sure you
don't become vitamin B1 deficient
