so if you have any type of mucus okay
there's a really simple and expensive
solution whether it's pneumonia
bronchitis sinus congestion
COPD asthma or even if you have a
tonsilitus or sore throat you can apply
this and it's basically using salt
there's been a long history that goes
way back to the 1700s or even a lot
earlier of using certain types of salt
therapy uh especially for your immune
system doctors back then were
recommending going to the Sea right
breathing in that Sea Air other people
recommended sea bathing and even they've
noticed uh people working in the salt
mines uh rarely got sick you know when
everyone else is getting sick they seem
to be pretty healthy so what's so
special about this salt in relationship
to U pathogens well salt is very
antimicrobial it has antiviral
properties antibacterial anti-fungal
anti- yeast anti- mold so whatever is
growing in your sinuses or your lungs
you can take advantage of salt and it's
really good to break up thick mucus
there's many different ways you can
apply this depending on how much you
want to spend I mean the cheapest thing
is to go to the coastal region where
there's Sea Air and just you know be in
that environment just breathe that Salt
Air another thing you can do is just
take a teaspoon of sea salt dissolve it
in a glass of warm water and drink that
that actually helps as well you can go
to a salt house which is a little more
expensive you can get a nety pot which
they normally use saline solution you
can get a nebulizer and you can gargle
with salt water right very effective for
mucus in your throat now something a
little more expensive is using this Halo
therapy or Halo generator now the term
Halo comes from the Greek word which
means salt okay so what's interesting
about this um Halo generator and I've
done a video just introducing people
about it it uses a dry salt okay it
crushes just basically sodium chloride
it's not even sea salt because
apparently when you use sea salt with
this machine it can give impurities and
kind of get stuck in your lungs so you
just want to use pure like
99.99% pure sodium chloride it crushes
it up into very small particles and then
it has a way of shooting it through the
air through your room so as you're
sleeping at night you're breathing in
these very tiny salt particles which
have super absorbing properties it can
actually go right into your skin it's
very anti-inflammatory
antimicrobial and you will wake up
feeling like you can breathe a lot
better because it's going to thin the
mucus and help reduce um all that mucus
that actually irritates the the Pathways
in your respiratory system now realize
that most of these respiratory
infections are viral related so you
cannot um use an antibiotic it's not
going to work so anything viral you
definitely just want to uh give it a
course of time 3 to seven days or even
up to 10 days and nurture your immune
system use things without side effects I
know a lot of people with small children
at the first sign of a fever they're
concerned you know they want to get rid
of that fever but getting rid of the
fever increases the duration of the
infection so you want to let the immune
system take over and just nurture it
help it that fever is good it's actually
cooking these viruses so they can't
survive and you know the three common
things I always recommend is vitamin D
vitamin C and Zinc but it is normal for
a child to get sick it's part of the
immune training process it's not a bad
thing you don't want to keep your kids
in a sterile environment you want to let
them be exposed to the environment so
their immune system can become very very
strong I know growing up I had a sore
throat several times a year pretty much
every year of my life growing up now I
rarely get sick because my immune system
is strong but anyway if you wanted a
simple solution to mucus in your sinuses
or your lungs salt is the best thing to
do for that and if you haven't seen my
video on the immune system in
relationship to what else to take I put
that video up right here check it out
