now if you want to sleep like a baby you
definitely want to watch this video of
course babies are up all night crying
and I'm being very sarcastic this video
is kind of a remake of a video I did a
year ago on consuming Kefir in the
evening to improve your sleep Kefir is
way way better than yogurt and I'm going
to talk about why when you consume kefir
you're giving these microbes a place to
live and in exchange it gives you a lot
of other benefits the big one is going
to be sleep so how can kefir help you
sleep well first of all what is kefir
Kefir is a fermented drink so you have
like five times the microbes in kefir
than in yogurt plus kefir has a
combination of both bacteria and yeast
okay it even has friendly candida it's
not until that candida turns into more
of a pathogenic version that it becomes
a problem so it's a combination of these
microbes that help you make serotonin
now serotonin is a
neurotransmitter and 90% of all your
serotonin is made in your own gut but
here's the thing it doesn't cross the
bloodb brain barrier into the body
instead it can act as a precursor to
help you make melatonin which is the
Sleep neurotransmitter so these microbes
from kefir actually go into the body and
they inoculate or seed your microbes to
help you grow more microbes and actually
the right balance and the microbes from
kefir actually can survive the stomach
acid whereas yogurt it doesn't survive
now there's definitely benefits to
Yogurt because it can act like a food
for certain things in your gut but kefir
actually is a probiotic okay that can
help your gut by providing the precursor
to melatonin but also it can help lower
cortisol which is the main stress
hormone and if you have that cortisol
pumping through your blood you're not
not going to sleep the beneficial
bacteria and yeast in kefir can help
break down the protein in milk like
casine and other proteins into a
digestible protein so even though a
person has an allergy to milk um it's
much less with kefir because of this
microbial uh decomposition of the
protein also kefir tends to eat up a
good portion of the lactose the milk
sugar which
many people have a problem with they
have lactose intolerance now a certain
strain of microbe called lactobacillus
can produce a compound that is an Ace
inhibitor it's something to help relax
your blood vessels to increase oxygen
and blood flow through the body which
helps you sleep better this kefir also
makes B1 which is essential for reducing
stress anxiety and building up up your
parasympathetic nervous system B1 is
kind of like a precursor for something
called acetylcholine which is the
neurotransmitter for the parasympathetic
nervous system which is all about rest
and digest kefir uh will help you absorb
minerals like calcium which is basically
in this fermented milk product as well
as magnesium so having a little calcium
and even magnesium uh in the evening is
really good for sleep but in addition to
sleep these microbes in kefir help with
a lot of other things too it can help
reduce allergies uh asthma help balance
your cholesterol help with any digestive
bloating or
constipation and help your immune system
now there's some updates from my
previous video number one for those
people who are on keto that are doing
intermittent fasting uh it might be best
to consume the kether at your last meal
instead of right before bed even though
a lot of people do it right before bed
and they actually it helps them but if
you're doing the inent fasting program
just take this at the end of your last
meal if you have the option to have
either sheep or goat milk kefir go for
those now if you have the option to be
in a certain State like California which
sells raw milk kefir go for that
recently I was in California and I found
some raw milk kefir it was is amazing it
was without the sweeteners it was with
no fruit I think they had a little
turmeric in there and cinnamon and this
was cow's milk but it was raw it was
amazing and if you can't find raw milk
here you know you might want to consider
um making your own from raw milk I do it
occasionally and what you would do is
you have a couple options you're going
to buy this starter it's kind of like a
kefir grain and you're going to add that
in a certain amount to the milk either
cow's milk sheep milk or goat milk and
then you have an option of keeping the
lid either open or closed now if you
keep it open you'll put some like cloth
over it or some type of netting or
you'll just make it closed now each of
those methods create a slightly
different effect on this kefir when you
keep the lid open okay you provide more
air you support the aerobic microbial
growth versus the lid closed which
you're supporting the anerobic microbial
growth and anytime you provide more air
to fermentation you get more of a yeast
growth a hint of sourdough bread but
less sour whereas the anerobic where the
lid is closed it's going to be more sour
because of the lactic acid so when you
go out and get kefir don't get the
lowfat get the whole milk get the plain
version and you might just find yourself
sleeping so much better now because of
the sensoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becom more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side I mean
just read the comments of my first video
in Keir just to see the amazing success
stories and I'll put that video up right
here check it
out
