so recently I had a question about
rancid fats are they harmful do I have
to worry about them let's talk about
that it is basically the incomplete or
complete oxidation of a fat or oil now
normally fats and oils come with their
own antioxidants like vitamin C vitamin
E to protect this oxidation but when
something is either exposed to light or
oxygen or heated or processed you can
start to destroy these antioxidants and
create exposure to the delicate oils and
then they can actually start breaking
down especially the unsaturated fatty
acids saturated fats don't normally turn
rancid because they're more saturated
they're more preserved but unsaturated
fats are the ones that are very
susceptible to becoming rancid so I'm
talking about soy oil and corn oil and
canola oil and cottonseed oil and even
olive oil and nuts so if you have these
oils sitting on your shelf for a long
time in your cupboard and they've
already been opened exposed to oxygen
they can turn or go rancid and I think
pretty much everyone has some supply of
certain nuts whether it's walnuts or
pecans or almonds sitting in their
cupboard that could be sitting there a
bit too long when an oil becomes rancid
it gives off a certain smell or taste
sometimes it's musty sour bitter
metallic but you'll identify it but
here's the thing it's actually pretty
toxic to the cells and even your genes
but of course I'm talking about
consuming them in you know somewhat
larger amounts but even a small amount
can irritate certain parts of the body
especially this first part of the small
intestine the bile ducts you can create
inflammation you can create irritation
and make it feel like your gall bladder
swollen so mainly these oils can create
a lot of inflammation in the body and
free radical damage and the big problem
is so many people are consuming massive
quantities of rancid oils without really
eating knowing it for example these oils
right here soy corn canola they're all
in the grocery stores pretty much make
up certain ingredients in over 60% of
the foods in the grocery store so you're
constantly getting exposed to these oils
which are a lot of times rancid not
mentioned you go to a restaurant okay
and they're gonna actually reuse a lot
of these oils over and over and over if
you're consuming deep fried products and
I'm just talking about fast food
restaurants I'm talking about other
restaurants as well so if you're eating
some food at a restaurant and then you
just feel kind of sick or bloated
especially underneath your right rib
cage one of the causes could be the
rancid oils so a couple things I would
recommend okay with the nuts I would
make sure that you find a company that
actually sells you fresh nuts and
they're not sitting on the shelf for
months and months and months where they
turn rancid and if you have the option
let's say you're at a healthy store of
consuming the nuts sometimes they keep
them in those bulk trays to see if their
answer or not definitely do that because
you don't want to start creating an
inflammatory response in your digestive
system just because you're consuming
rancid oils another thing you can do
with nuts is you can when you get the
nuts keep them in the refrigerator okay
and let's say you bought a lot of
different types of nuts and you want to
consume them take a small amount out
soak them in water okay and then
overnight and then you can dry them out
it's called germination but of course
that's going to get rid of the enzyme
inhibitors which is going to make them
more easy to digest and you would have
to consume them in a short period of
time but that way you can adjust what's
being consumed so you can keep the bulk
of those nuts in the refrigerator which
will slow down the oxidation process as
far as these wheels right here I would
even consume them because most of them
are GMO and so we had that extra factor
which adds toxicity olive oil
I am very picky about my olive oil and
fresh olive oil has a real distinct
flavor and a smell to it that you can
differentiate very easily anyway I have
another interesting video on oils that I
think you'll like check it out
