so I wanted to clear up a confusion that
I've noticed that quite a few people
have related to the definition of
organic when people think of organic
they think about food that is grown
without pesticides herbicides fungicides
antibiotics right well there's another
definition of organic as it relates to
minerals okay so you have organic
minerals and inorganic minerals so
organic minerals would be plant-based
minerals now when we get to inorganic
minerals we're talking about the rocks
and minerals in the soil only plants can
convert those rocks or inorganic
minerals or elemental minerals to the
organic form our bodies were meant to
consume organic minerals they're more
bioavailable and it's much more
difficult to absorb inorganic minerals
our bodies were not meant to just take a
spoonful of soil and then down it
we need to consume the plants or the
animals animals also have the organic
form of minerals so sometimes you'll get
people that will say well the chemistry
is very very similar so our bodies will
absorb it yes it is similar but it's not
the same now if you're gonna consume the
iron shavings off of a nail versus
consuming some of the iron in the
hemoglobin and red meat there is a huge
difference there's a big difference
between consuming rocks or calcium
carbonate which is limestone versus the
calcium and cheese for example or the
magnesium and chlorophyll which is very
similar to the chemistry of blood this
is organic this is inorganic and what's
shocking is the majority of and even the
minerals in a multivitamin mineral
product that you would get at you the
GNC or the drugstore are inorganic okay
that's why they're so heavy they can be
used as a paperweight and it's filled
with calcium carbonate and all sorts of
inorganic minerals that are not the best
bioavailable minerals that you can get
so when you're actually getting minerals
get them from actual food or if you're
gonna get them as a supplement make sure
that they are organic minerals if you
want more information about minerals in
general I have a very interesting video
check it out it's right here
you
