hey guys recently had a question about
gastric bypass someone was wondering if
they should do it and I just wanted to
explain what the most common gastric
bypass is and some of the complications
because some of the benefits that people
hear about gastric bypass is that your
diabetes clears up you lose weight etc
but the question is why can't you do
this without having to do this surgery
that's the big question
I think you can but for those people
that already had the surgery we're going
to come up with some solutions to maybe
some complications okay but at least
want to explain what it is so the most
common type of gastric bypass is
something called ruin and why gastric
bypass where basically they're going to
take the stomach put it in two sections
and they're going to reroute the
plumbing or the the small intestine so
here's the stomach right here here's a
small intestine and we have a lot of
small intestine but what they're going
to do is they're going to basically take
the top part of the stomach and cut it
out okay and then they'll sew it up on
the top and then sew this and the bottom
they're going to leave this there okay
and then they're going to go about 18
inches of your intestine and then you're
going to cut it off and you're going to
reroute that up into the stomach so
we're bypassing everything and then
they're gonna actually take this 18 inch
and connect it somewhere lower on the
intestine so now what we're dealing with
is a much much smaller stomach okay the
surface area is much smaller and also
we're dealing with a less and small
intestine so based on that we want to
look at the effects that can happen well
the purpose of the stomach is to help
you digest protein and kill pathogens
and absorb minerals we're gonna have a
problem digesting protein so if you've
already had this procedure you may want
to start adding in a couple things like
one is outside of integer or betaine how
to chloride to increase the acidity so
you can actually digest more protein
because if you have a small stomach like
that you're just not going to have the
ability to digest protein and break it
down into small particles so we'll have
difficulty releasing the powerful
protein enzymes because
we don't have the asset there so that's
one thing so in some people what they do
is they take a an amino acid supplement
that helps them the next thing is
pathogens so you're just not going to
have the capacity to kill off pathogens
so it would be very unwise for you to
consume like sushi or raw fish or any
raw meats because if there's any
parasites or microbes in them you're not
going to kill it off so you're
definitely going to have to just make
sure that eat really really clean or
make sure you cook your food very well
so there's no microbes in your foods so
you're going to have to enhance your
diet with minerals and trace minerals so
some of the side effects would be
nutritional deficiencies vitamin A
vitamin D vitamin E why the fat soluble
vitamins because it takes a really
strong acidic stomach to trigger to
release the bile from the gallbladder so
if you're not releasing that we're going
to have a bile deficiency eventually and
you're not going to be able to pull in
the vitamin A vitamin D these are fat
soluble vitamins that are really
important for vision bone immune system
so basically you're just going to have
malabsorption you're just going to not
going to be able to absorb and the
nutrients from the food that you're
eating to the extent that you did before
number three increased risk of leakage
okay number four scar tissue that could
be a problem with pain and things like
that but if you have scar tissue there's
a great remedy it's called sera pepper
taste I have a video on it look it up
but Sarah pepper taste is a very
powerful enzyme to help you break down
scar tissue in unwanted proteins in your
body and then we have the risk of dying
there is a risk of dying
it's 0.5 percent so it's a half of a
percent but it's still there okay it
could be bleeding internally
who knows and number six you have
something called the dumping syndrome
okay that's when you're actually just
having diarrhea all the time and this
has to do with too much bile so you
wouldn't want to take bile salts okay
unless you had constipation so if you do
have diarrhea there are certain
occasions you can take to slow down your
body's ability to release bile but bile
is a lubricant so we don't want to add
more bile to the situation so in summary
I would highly recommend you do healthy
Kido in a minute fasting before you
attempt us if you already have a gastric
bypass then you're going to have to cope
as best as you can at apple cider
vinegar may be attained on a chloride be
careful about consuming anything like
raw meats and things that could have
microbes in them take minerals B
vitamins fats Seibel vitamins and you
might need some bile salts if you feel
constipated but not if you have diarrhea
alright thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called a new body type guide is
an upgrade from my last edition called
the seven principles of fat burning it
has a hundred fifty six images three
hundred seventy eight pages full
glossary I talk about keto in a minute
fasting the body types in detail I have
a new stress chapter I'm going to show
you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
