so in this technique we're going to show
you how to get rid of stress out of the
top of the neck in order to sleep you
have to have a very relaxed neck and um
if you fell in your tailbone or had a
neck injury uh you definitely want to do
this but these specific points they're
right here and here um are points that
are very very relaxing and if you press
into them you can just press like this
right into those little spots there it's
going to release a lot of stress but you
can do it yourself there's two two ways
you can do it you can do it sitting or
lying down we're going to show you both
ways so go ahead and um put your arms
your hands in the right place there okay
good so you see how she interlocks her
fingers and then she she wants to put
her thumbs I'm want to straighten the
thumb out and we want the pad right
there and right here okay so she's going
to hold that right there and press into
that spot okay and keep her elbows out
here yeah okay she's going to hold that
for I would say about about 2 minutes
and it's a little bit easier if she's
laying on down on her back because she
can have gravity put the pressure in
there but this you can do it sitting
fine but the as long as the shoulders
are okay sometimes if the shoulders are
too stiff you can't do it but these two
points right here just underneath the
skull pressing directly in will pull a
tremendous amount of stress off your
body um there's you can also do it with
a massage tool we'll show you that in
another video but um this is a great
thing you can do uh before bed so all
these different techniques we're going
to show you do I'd say do about 5
minutes before you go to bed at night
and do it every single day because this
is going to pull stress out of your body
as you fill it up through the day of all
that stress you're going through and
that way we can keep the stress coming
off the body okay so this is um this is
how you do the first um um technique
