hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the effects of high blood sugar on
your arteries and your vascular system
okay you realize that 70% of all deaths
from diabetes involved a vascular system
so that's why I'm doing this video
because 70% of all deaths from diabetes
that's a huge bunch of people so why not
talk about this specific thing now
there's a couple things that happen in
relationship to high sugar and what it
does to the arteries number one it makes
the capillary walls thicker okay
it makes the walls of the blood vessels
thicker and the name for that is called
arterial sclerosis which is hardening of
the arteries and where the arteries
become very stiff so you're also going
to see high blood pressure because
there's no elasticity anymore
and you're gonna see a demon and the
ankles and the feet so if you were to
press on the foot it leaves a dent it's
called pitting edema because the loss of
this capillary function all right number
two you're also going to have plaquing
and clacking is the end result of damage
within the arteries where the body
starts accumulating cholesterol deposits
protein and calcium as a band-aid to
heal the area but it forms a plaque and
that is called
atherosclerosis okay which blocks the
coronary artery of the heart and it's
going to cause chest pain
it's called angina and diabetics are
four times more likely to develop just
simply because high blood sugars and
that's what a diabetic is they have high
blood sugars that's why I had to take
medication what's interesting to me is
that if you look up atherosclerosis we
would say the cause is unknown they
don't know what the cause is okay but
there's risk factors of diabetes and
obesity and smoking and things like that
well I'm going to show you my favorite
book here called CIPA encyclopedia of
endocrinology volume 4 and on page 164
they have different pages that describe
different aspects of insulin and the one
I'm going to talk about is called
diabetic micro angiopathy okay so let's
see what frank knitter says about this
high blood glucose causes a thickening
of the basement membrane of the
capillaries of the arteries so it
basically makes the arteries and
capillaries thicker okay so we do know
now the relationship here in fact
diabetics are three times more likely to
have thicker arteries it goes on to say
that it dumps protein into the arteries
vascular changes of the retina that's
the eye an accumulation of protein in
the walls of the small blood vessels it
affects the microcirculation of many
organs yeah so right here it talks about
the accumulation of plaquing and also
the thickening of the walls so high
blood sugar is the cause because there's
a dysfunction with insulin so the best
thing to do is if you're diabetic make
sure that you do everything you can to
bring these sugars down naturally and
improve the underlying cause of this
which is high levels of insulin that
then lose their function and then it
can't control it anymore okay I put a
link down below of some great
information on what to eat to support
healthy blood sugars check it out hey if
you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quints
