well hey everyone today we have a
special guest Aaron Davison is the CEO
of a company chronometer and it's an app
it's pretty cool it allows you to track
60 nutrients and probably I don't know
it could be more by now I was just kind
of getting this off your website over
7500 different foods and in the analysis
of your your macros and your nutrients
so if you're doing the key tell and if'
you can track this data so welcome and
thank you for spending some time just
kind of answering some questions that I
have oh yeah thanks for having me
absolutely
you know when you do the keto plan I get
this over and over and over like what do
I track my calories dry track my
nutrients one of the macros so you have
one of the top best apps out there and
so I wanted to bring you on just to see
what you're up to see what this app is
all about and then some features that
you have that are new that I think
people will be excited about so can you
kind of just tell us a little bit about
your app and a thumbnail sketch and and
this and also then you maybe can pull up
a screen too when you're when you're
ready on on what you have with keto your
thing yeah we're all about tracking
we're all about data and deep nutrition
data in particular and and all about
science so we really try to take a we're
trying to present a tool we're not
trying to push any kind of particular
diet or regimen on anyone where we try
to stay impartial but we also try and
follow the research and keep on top of
the trends that are in the space and
yeah like like you mentioned we have
Sony more than much more than 7,500
Foods the interesting we have hundreds
of thousands but we have two types of
foods in our database which is important
for everyone to be aware of so we have
foods that have the full spectrum of
nutrition so these have the 60
micronutrients all the amino acids
vitamins minerals fat breakdown car
breakdown write down and just sugar
subtypes sugar alcohols and and just
immense amount of data when you want to
like understand what's in food but that
is limited to a small subset of our
database so that is typically whole
foods and greed common ingredients and
very classic popular products from
mainly from the US market that so these
are foods that have gone into the labs
and been extensively analyzed so that we
have all these data points then there's
the hundreds and hundreds of thousands
every year new products they're like on
the market on the shelves that are
shrink-wrapped we don't have like
obviously those products don't get
analyzes heavily and we just have what's
on the label for most of those or what's
published by it say the restaurants
nutrition facts and they're not going to
publish or even do the lab work to give
you you you know the full spectrum and
all they're not going to share the
ingredients if we knew the exact
ingredients that went into it obviously
we could create a food you know compiled
from the thing our ingredient database
and we would know what what's in it but
that's just not what happens in the food
industry right now so we do try and show
you that within the app and all when I
demo I'll show the way you can sort of
discern if you're interested in just
tracking macros it doesn't matter
because that's always unavailable but if
you're also in the nutrients then you
have to focus your what you're working
with to real foods and if you're eating
real food and preparing your meals it's
never an issue it's it's when you mean
the stuff you shouldn't be eating or the
problems it's just there's so many of
those it's like I don't even think
personally I don't think we should even
track that because you shouldn't be
eating in the first place
what is there a database that you tapped
into where you get the data or how do
you do that yeah so we we source our
data from a number of databases and we
have our own in-house curation team as
well
Wow that works on constantly enhancing
and expanding your database both from
the product side and the research side
are you able to see my screen now yeah
okay so this is this is the web version
there's also a mole
version that looks a little simpler but
all the functionality is still there and
so this is the diary which we're focused
around and in your diary you get a list
of what's happened through the day and
then you're gonna know nothing's showing
here because I haven't logged anything
today
so I'm gonna demonstrate that but you
can see the list of vitamins minerals
protein lipids carbs and miscellaneous
you can track and see information on and
you can also log your exercises you can
record biometrics so anything can
measure whether it's like your ferret
and blood levels your blood glucose your
ketone readings that can also get dumped
in here and graphed alongside nice and
freeform notes and photos can also be
kept in your in your journal here as
well but the the basic workflow here
would be to add I'm gonna start with my
breakfast so I had two eggs and I'm just
gonna make sure I go so we have a couple
of different categories I had been
clicked on brands here restaurants
products that are supplements pills and
whatnot and then common foods would be
foods that are in that whole food
database yeah so if you do want to be
sure that you're getting comprehensive
nutrition you can limit your searches on
this tab let's say for example you had a
piece of meat for breakfast and would
you how does it measure in ounces or
grams or um yeah so so every food will
have a number of different serving sizes
it will come up with the default of
what's the most popular but you cannot
have old logging grams ounces and then
if various serving sizes are provided by
the curators you would also be able to
select those okay so I'm just saying to
medium eggs in my scrambled eggs and I'm
gonna add some bacon
three strips of bacon avocado half an
avocado and you can see I'm filio my
breakfast here I've actually the count
I'm demoing here is already configured I
believe with in our ketogenic settings
mode so normally in the default app this
would actually over here be showing
calories but you can change this to net
carbs for instance if and I want to be
more focused on on carb tracking you
still get your whole calorie energy and
an out balance here so here we can see
we've gotten seventy percent of her
calories so far from fats eight percent
from carbs 22 percent from protein we
can see where my end my predicted energy
burn for the day based on my body type
so my basal metabolic rate and general
activity now if I went and logged
exercise will also see so I feel went
for a thirty minute jog I'm just gonna
drag that up here now I've also got 250
calories onto my energy burn here as
well so so if you're interested in
calories we do track those but if you're
doing keto the most important thing
obviously is keeping track of these
macros and the balance so we have a
number of features to support that but
one of the most interesting ones is when
you've gone here and logged all your
foods for the day and you might notice
that you've blown over your net carb
limit and you're curious like oh where
did those pesky carbs come from over
over any of these bars and see what the
top contributors were nice and that can
actually unveil some surprises sometimes
where you're you weren't aware there
were few sneaky carbs in something I
love that and then as far as the the
individual nutrients is quite a database
of nutrients so let's see you have let's
take a just look at potassium I just
want to look at that Wow look at that
that 1% of my daily work
for potassium so these are all
configured by default to the RDAs for
your body type you can love it I love it
you can override these so if your doctor
tells you you know you have a particular
condition you need to watch your iron or
your zinc or what have you you can you
can change these targets too you can
personalize them further than than the
defaults but by default it's it's what
the general recommendations are for for
you and yeah so we can see where my
potassium is coming from it's a great
way to learn what's in your food
you even have phytonutrients I think
yeah you try to find out nutrients in
vitamin A Michael pain Wow
yeah and so there's no RTA's or targets
that he receive you could always add one
it if you wanted but if but we do show
the amounts and we you know I should
mention we we can track a lot more than
what I'm showing here there just turned
off by default just to reduce complexity
yeah yeah we appreciate that and yeah we
want to kind of keep it simple but the
ability to expand it this is very very
cool stuff it's simple a problem you
know just from a person looking at this
or praying like wow this is pretty nice
but the amount of work that you had to
do to make this simple I could imagine
because that's the hardest thing is to
take to make it graph to quickly get the
representation so I know you probably
went through this a few times oh yeah
this is assessable for many years and
it's continuing to evolve yeah we're
always trying to find ways to to make it
more user friendly and maintain the
power that's always the struggle is when
you want to present a lot of information
it can be very overwhelming for new
users who haven't quite you know when
they first come to this app and they see
all of this detail it can be a little
overwhelming for some people and I just
want to also mention one thing for those
of you that are watching I think your
app is is like three dollars or
something like that right one of them we
actually so we have two versions in the
app store I want is free with ads and
one is yeah three dollars to to the
Anthony version you know guys I
personally
try to develop something like this in
the early 2000s and I paid $300,000 to
come up with that programmers to try to
build something I gave up it was just
too too complex too difficult and too
expensive so and I know you probably
invested a tremendous amount of work and
for you know a couple dollars to have
this data turn off your cell phone I
mean it's like I think it's it's
definitely worth it so I appreciate you
doing all the work it's been fun to do
the work to be honest but it has been a
lot of hard work
yeah yeah just just quickly diving into
some particularly interesting
Kito features since your audience would
be interested in that when you have it
in set up for ketogenic mode we also
have some X some handy ways to log your
your blood urine or breath ketone
reading squeeze so if you are using a
device like the keto Mojo or the P
strips or the ketone express analyzer
you can you can record that to your
diary
Wow and everything at point 5 really
molars there it is also and when you
into our trends and charting section or
report section you can actually start to
see how what you're eating how you're
exercising notes on sleep all those
things might be affecting your your
ketone and blood glucose reading it's
kind of like um it's this is so
important because so many people out if
I'm not losing weight why is that well
go you could go back if you track
everything you can see right before you
started not losing weight there is
something you ate or you can look at
your ketones or your blood sugar so it's
a it's a great way to figure things out
I like it plus the glucose reading you
can check that too and track that
exactly so it's it's it's usually
usually record those together and it's
good idea to track those together if you
if you're doing a serious ketogenic diet
just to show everyone where they can set
up the ketogenic mode
I click the so there's this
macronutrient targets section there's a
little Settings icon here that expands
to the settings for this area and
there's a macronutrient target section
and from that you select the high fat
ketogenic mode and then you get to
select either custom values or from some
presets so if you were doing this for
medically serious condition where you
really want to be rigorous we've got a
few presets here so it's gonna take your
[Music]
your body weight and body fat percentage
and to determine your lean body mass and
it's gonna give you a certain allotment
of protein per kilogram body and then
you also set a cap on how many either
some people do want to use total carbs
so include fiber integral cause some
people want to use Nick most people use
net carbs for mutagen but that's also an
option we also let some people disagree
whether whether to include sugar
alcohols in their carbs so we've made
that an option here as well right so we
have rigorous which would be typically
for someone who's very sensitive to
carbs or is doing this for a very very
serious condition so they don't want to
mess anything up that's these quite
strictly moderate well is where almost
everyone will should get into ketosis on
moderate if they follow these limits
it's with few exceptions and then relax
would be someone like myself I'm not
doing a ketogenic diet for medical
reasons I'm not overweight just doing it
for general health and interest I like
how it makes me feel and athletic so I
can tolerate a lot more per day of net
carbs and we have this athletic bonus
option with shift ticked
but an extra allowance of carbs if you
love more exercise so knowing that
that's gonna get that blood sugar is
gonna get burned off in the exercise and
not affect your your insulin levels as
much especially for endurance athletes
zach bitter
he took the record for a hundred miles
he's coming to this summit and of course
he he needs to do more carbs when he's
running so of course he's not doing
glucose he's doing you know other types
of cars but yeah I totally see that and
of course if these presets don't match
what you'd like you can use custom and
you can edit any of these to your liking
nice don't want the wizard like that's
calculating all of these things
dynamically you just want very say
you've used some other website to
calculate your macros for keto and you
know the exact gram amounts and you can
also use the fixed targets mode which
lets you you just click these and type
in the exact amount you want
they won't change or fluctuate based on
your exercise or anything so some people
prefer that type control of most people
prefer our wizard that dynamically
figures things out for you that's you
right if you can go back one field I
want to just right there you had okay so
he has 1.5 grams of protein per kilogram
for lean body mass okay so that's that
the key thing is not like per weight for
a lot of the people that are doing my
program and let's say they're going
through menopause or metabolism is slow
we're gonna recommend 0.75 grams of
protein per kilogram protein body mass
so that's what plug
[Music]
yeah so the 0.75 and then as far as fat
grams can you can we customize that to 4
for fat and perhaps so this the way this
with this keto mode works is basically
anything left in your calorie budget
gets assigned to fat okay we've done a
weight loss bowl for instance then we
assume the deficit is gonna be made up
by burning your own fat
so the your target for the day with for
fat would work out to that balance the
dietary fat it for someone that's really
struggling to lose weight in their
plateauing we want to keep it under 75
grams something on average between 60
and 75 grams if they keep it alow it
forces their body to burn their own fat
a lot more but we don't want to go too
low because I know how deficiencies but
that's kind of for those of you watching
it's kind of like a good number to shoot
for if you really want to get some
serious weight loss do you go ahead
sorry and I was just just gonna just add
like if if our our pedo targeting wizard
doesn't do the trick for anyone then
that's where you want to use that fixed
moment to just plug in the exact values
you determined yeah so so it's all you
eat this program is extremely
configurable it you just might have to
crack open the user manual or contact
our support for some of those those
cases that might not be as obvious but
it pretty much everything can be tuned
to how you want it nice let's say for
example we want to add another layer of
variables which is in a minute fasting
mm-hmm do you have anything yet um I'm
not so we don't we definitely want to
add some things like but we don't have
them yet what we recently added over
time stamp them so you you can
optionally record the times of your
meals okay
I mean in reality it's just you still
could you just basically just add your
one meal or two males and then you know
that will calculate what you need it now
so it's just with one now that we have
time stamps we could start showing you
for instance like how long since your
last meal or charting the the length of
time between your time of your fasts for
instance from that data yeah it gets it
a little bit complex because you have
when you go less meals your calories do
go down because your body is retaining
nutrients so it's like and then you have
the variable of how much the person
weighs and really how many calories they
need and the the digestive system
strength and the stress level so it
probably you can get to the point where
it's like over-the-top complex so we
don't want to do that but I think this
would give you everything you wanted it
now just on a thumbnail sketch
exactly and yeah I think in 2019 we'll
we'll probably have some interesting
things to support intermittent fasting
yeah awesome yeah really
um now just from you doing this what are
you finding you probably get data from a
lot of people I don't know if you look
at the data but are you finding that
well there's a lot of people are they're
not consuming enough of a certain
nutrient have you seen we we haven't we
actually take data privacy pretty follow
that pretty strictly right now and in
our policy and so we do have options to
enroll and to actually opt in to
share your data with researchers who
then would be allowed to look at your
data but yeah as far as when we've used
this or we've talked to people who use
this especially following a ketogenic
diet you know the usual suspects
definitely crop up like the electrolytes
and and things like that can be tricky
to get from your food especially when
you need more
what the RDAs layout right those diets
here yeah and even even that's like you
know some of these nutrients you might
need more especially if your health
isn't that great then you have the other
thing if you're doing higher carbs the
depletion of sometimes as they're
refined carbs the depletion of mineral
especially b1 or potassium but I think I
would be very interested to see I would
focus on potassium I would bet you
anything that the average person is not
even getting close to the amount of
potassium they need because you need
4700 as a as a rdas so it's like that's
like a lot of vegetables so that would
be interesting to point that out but
time
Ventris yeah we have the potential
certainly to data mine
and and learn some big broad strokes
things about about our user base and the
different diets are on I think the
challenge is always because it's not a
controlled study that quality of the
data the noise and the data you don't
know did someone if I forgot to log my
lunch and my dinner versus I was fasting
for the rest of the day you know we're
not someone kind of looking at the data
from a high level mean aggregation is
not going to be able to to tell the
difference now was I just meal planning
or doing a demo or did I actually eat
this and people use the software for so
many different different ways that I
think unless they've actually enrolled
in a protocol with the researcher and
then they're sharing their data I think
that's the way to go yeah yeah it'd be a
you know it's like um the first thing I
do like this is what I get a lot from
people especially if they're not
familiar with keto
oh I'm not losing weight I said okay
well I can't evaluate that unless I have
a food log so you know if they did this
they would have it already done and then
we can evaluate evaluator but then the
first thing is like making sure they're
doing it correct and ninety percent of
time they're not doing a correct so then
we correct that but this will allow them
to really look at things and dig down to
see what's wrong
yeah so the one thing we have to support
that is a professional version so anyone
who's working with patients or clients
in in that sort of setting whether
they're in a hospital or their fitness
coach can use our professional version
to then give give the app to their
clients and then their clients data is
accessible under our pro dashboard so
they can follow along and see everything
in there their final then they can set
their targets and they can they can
thought they can check in on them every
day if they want right from there
stop and say you know give him a shoot
them a text or a call call the money
look I noticed you know you missed the
mark here I'm a pretty detailed and
hands-on if they need to yeah I think I
think I'm gonna I'm gonna tell my my
Kido coaches in my health coaches that I
have a training course I'm gonna this
would be perfect to use with their
clients and especially like um you know
people that have food allergies and
inflammatory responses it's always
connected to something you're eating so
if you could track it and isolate what
the heck you're doing because there's so
many variables you can start eliminating
things until you actually nail what
you're allergic to or inflamed so this
is an awesome awesome tool I'm gonna put
a link down below of where to get it on
a desktop and also you just do a search
on on this product and download it
there's even a free version to to check
that out so I want to thank you so much
for your time I know you're probably
busy programming and just to share like
what what this is and the power of it so
for those of you that need to download
it I'm gonna put a link down below this
is awesome so I want to thank you so
much and I appreciate your time yeah my
pleasure thank you very much absolutely
