today we're going to talk about how to
resolve hearing loss with nutrients and
of course when you do research on this
topic you're going to find this word
that keeps popping up over and over and
over as the cause of hearing loss and
that is it's idiopathic what does that
mean it means we don't know there's two
types of General hearing loss you have
the congenital which doesn't necessarily
mean it's genetic it could just mean
that your mother had an infection when
she was caring you and that created
hearing or it could have been an iodine
deficiency that she had or alcohol
alcohol can severely affect the hearing
and many other things involved with the
nerves but also viruses can do it as
well cyto megala viruses herpes viruses
so that is congenital okay then you have
acquired hearing loss you might see this
term age related hearing loss but
there's not a lot of solutions other
than hearing aids so the two main things
that I see that are affecting hearing
are a group of viruses and also
nutritional deficiencies so when you go
through an acute infection there's an
initial dramatic decrease in zinc and
iron both of these are related to a loss
of hearing and this is why after a
chronic infection people start
developing like ulcers inside the mouth
that is a zinc deficiency a loss of
taste or smell that's also a zinc
deficiency or they start craving things
weird like dirt ice charcoal all of
those could be an iron deficiency now
viruses can also create other
deficiencies too like a selenium
deficiency but selenium is fascinating
because it's involved in the thyroid
helping convert from T4 to T3 the active
form of the thyroid hormone it's also
key in helping the t- helper cell work
and that is the cell that helps
coordinate the entire immune system so
selenium is important in inflammatory
conditions as well as autoimmune
conditions especially if it's related to
the thyroid as in hashimotos there are a
lot of viruses involved in hearing loss
you have measles which by the way can
deplete you of vitamin A you have
shingles it was the chickenpox when you
were a kid so it is important to kind of
look in your past to see when your
hearing loss started and what happened
right before that did you get some re
occurrence of a virus that was in
remission then we have the sensory
nerves that are involved in the ear that
can become damaged having diabetes
that's called diabetic autonomic
neuropathy this involves a severe B1
deficiency B1 is like the key nutrient
to help your autonomic nervous system
and if you're diabetic you're
automatically going to be deficient in
vitamin B1 so if you have all the sugar
going through your bloodstream stream
it's going to take a lot of B1 to
metabolize that and it could affect the
inner ear so B1 is another really key
nutrient to help hearing but if you're
going to take B1 especially if it's
related to diabetes I would recommend
taking something called botam that can
actually penetrate into the myin sheath
into the nerve so then we get into
Vitamin D first of all you have all of
the autoimmune diseases that relate to
hearing loss you have autoimmune inner
ear disease you have Lupus and ritro
arthritis but the antidote to all of
those is vitamin D in higher doses
there's also a big connection between
low vitamin D and vertigo which is also
related to the air and on top of
that viruses can really lower your
ability to absorb vitamin D at the
receptor level so even though you're
taking the regular amounts you might not
be getting it in the receptor because
that virus is downgrading the receptor
and I'm not telling you to start taking
all these vitamins I'm just giving you
Clues to look at your life to see if you
could potentially connect the dots
between some deficiency that you might
have and you're hearing loss and did you
know that you have three little tiny
fragile bones in the inner ear and if
they're not formed properly or they're
not working correctly you can start
experiencing hearing loss and so
selenium protects you against loud
sounds because it's all about countering
oxidative stress and the same thing with
iron and zinc one little point about uh
selenium this is a very powerful
molecule to protect you against
oxidative damage and hydrogen peroxide
buildup now hydrogen peroxide uh can
even trigger an autoimmune disease and
so this is why people with Vitiligo and
inflammatory conditions should be taking
selenium but here's the thing in order
to hear you need to have high amounts of
pottassium and if you don't have enough
potassium you won't be able to hear now
the last thing I want to talk about is
elderone it's a hormone that's made from
your adrenal glands that helps you
regulate potassium and it's relates to
blood pressure control as well now why
would elderone helps someone because as
we age elderone goes down but also
potassium goes down too now just to
learn more about potassium if you have
not seen my video on potassium you
should probably check it out I'll put it
up right here
