hi guys in this video we want to talk
about how to increase muscle mass with
exercise and this is a principle that uh
you need to follow it's definitely not
low weights High Reps it's not taking
your bike out it is basically higher
amounts of Weights lower reps lots of
recovery okay so you want to work up
this of time higher personal trainer
that help you with the
technique but you want to put as much
weight as you can so you can barely do
like five reps that's how you create
this expansion of your muscles it's
called myof fibular hypertrophy where
you're taking the muscle cell and you're
traumatizing it for the body to recover
and expand and get bigger and um you're
not going to actually do this in the
treadmill it's going to have to be
actual weights the key is the recovery
though to get 8 to n hours of sleep why
because first of all the intensity
that's going to be created from this is
going to stimulate growth hormone growth
hormone is going to help you with muscle
mass growth hormone uh is also triggered
by Sleep being so we want a combination
of great
recovery High uh high amount of Weights
lower reps and then you want to do
what's called compound resistance
exercise where you're working multiple
joints at one time like the squat the
deadlift overhead push and the power
clean these are exercises that you could
do that are compound and they uh can
some serious uh high intensity but of
course we want to keep it Low Reps
something like five five maybe to five
to seven that would be enough and you
want to gradually work up to this but
this principle will definitely help you
if you want to start getting bigger
thanks for
watching you I just wanted to take a
moment out to thank you for your amazing
feedback that you guys are giving me
it's just mind-blowing the success is
the wins I created a link down below so
you can actually type out your full
success story and if you have a before
and after with weight loss that would be
awesome and if you don't have a success
with weight but other things just put an
image of yourself and your personal
success story and I would love to read
it and also share it with others so I
want to just thank you in advance for
doing that but there's a link down below
fill it out and I can't wait to read it
