hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about why your friends and family don't
do keto or em and fasting okay
well first of all people don't do what
they don't understand okay so and the
other thing is you never want to explain
how to do it or what to eat before you
explain why to do it and to really
explain it or teach it you have to
really understand it yourself first in
fact the more you understand it the
better you're able to explain it in
simple terms so this is what I would do
if I were explaining the ketogenic diet
to someone that really knew nothing
about it the ketogenic diet is a diet
that allows you to burn your fat off
your body the excess fat and use fat as
your primary fuel ketones are the
byproduct of fat burning okay so really
simply that's how I would explain it
so after explaining what it is now I'm
gonna explain why they should do it and
they should do it because fat is a
superior fuel for your brain your heart
and your hormones it's going to improve
your mood your a memory and your energy
okay keeps it really simple then we want
to explain what intermittent fasting is
intermittent fasting is not a diet it's
a frequency of eating and not eating
that's all it is and then we want to
simply explain why they should do it
intermittent fasting triggers hormones
specifically the fat burning hormones
and the anti-aging hormones so that way
they get a concept of the benefit and
very simply what it is so go ahead and
apply this and see if you get your
friends or family members to actually do
it through educating them on really what
it is hey before you go definitely sign
up for my free keto course I put a link
down below it's on messenger in facebook
but it will give you all the basics it's
very quick it's like three or four
videos and it's free check it out
