let's talk about the three most
dangerous restaurant
meals in the world now I know people
will probably disagree there's worse
Foods out there but these are are pretty
bad and they're very dangerous so let's
start with number one and I'm not going
to mention the restaurant name you can
figure this out pretty easily okay the
first one pancakes hash browns orange
juice and sausage okay for some of you
that might not know when you
combine sugar with a protein or this
much refined carbohydrate with protein
or even this much carbohydrate with fat
and it's heated you're going to get a
condition called glycation now what is
glycation glycation is a condition where
you bind either fat to carb or protein
to carb and when you consume this you
literally clog up your arteries it
messes with your brain it gets lodged
into the cells and these proteins are
damaged so they they're not functional
so they really get in the way of normal
function in your body all right let's
start with the pancakes Now the recipe
for these pancakes that this restaurant
makes they have to make them taste
really good so they're going to
definitely put all sorts of things in it
to make it taste better definitely
modifyed food starch which is monosodium
glutamate uh it's not just we flour they
put soy flour which is really hard on
the gut of course you have the gluten
and then you have this refined
carbohydrate that's really high on the
glycemic index so it's going to spike
your blood sugar right away and of
course they add more food starch to this
and then you have hydrogenated soy which
is trans fats which is kind of like a
like a plastic food that's just going to
clog everything up and of course they do
have vitamins though they're fortified
with iron which is going to sit in your
stomach like lead okay you're going to
feel very bloated when you consume this
and I mean I I don't understand how
people could even eat this without
completely passing out but it's not just
pancakes they put whipped cream on it
they put all this jelly on it they put
chocolate chips on
there marshmallow yeah marshmallows
which actually is a combination of
modified food starch and high fructus
corn syrupy that would be the worst
ingredient on the planet so that's just
the pancakes okay then hash browns which
is very similar to a french fry uh they
put corn starch on there and they add
dextrose which is a synthetic sugar and
maltodextrin which is uh way higher than
glucose on the glycemic index and then
of course you have the potato and you
cook all this and you fry it in
vegetable oil which is really not
vegetable oil it's grain oil um GMO
glyphosate so you're going to have a
product that's so tasty but very very
deadly for your arteries because you're
just going to spike the sugar and cause
the pancreas to have Whiplash then we
have juice which is orange juice which
actually has no vitamins because it's
past drives there's no more vitamin c in
there so you're just drinking sugar
water and then on top of that we're
going to have to add the sausages right
and it's not just meat it's really bad
processed meat not organic and of course
they add sugar and MSG to that meat to
make it taste really good you combine
all this together and you eat this I I
can't believe anyone would not want to
take a serious nap for at least several
hours after consuming this but there are
people that can just eat this stuff and
somehow get away with it at least
initially now personally I was not that
bad but I was pretty bad all right
that's number one number two this is a
lunch food I'm not going to mention the
name you can figure it out you have the
burger fries Coke and a dessert so of
course on the burger you're not just
doing the Patty you're doing the bun
right in the bun they have mold
Inhibitors there's a refined
carbohydrates there's corn starch and of
course on the burger you're going to
have um maybe some bacon maybe you're
going to have ketchup right high
fructose corn syrup and then you're
going to mustard which seems to be the
only thing that it's not going to be
that bad for you right so that's
actually surprising they'll have one or
two things that won't kill you and that
would probably be like a pickle or
mustard right and then we have the fries
very similar ingredients to the hash
browns of course they use hydrogenated
soy which is trans fats and then this
highly refined potato product which
they're going to they're going to deep
fry so they're putting the combination
of sugar with potato with all this fat
under high Heats this is just wonderful
for your arteries of course the coke
that you drink has high fructose corn
syrup so you're going to really uh spike
your insulin and create a lot of liver
issues and insulin resistance and then
on top of that you have to have a
dessert right I mean might as well just
go completely over the edge all right
number three we have the chicken fingers
that so many kids consume off the
children's menu which they use highly
processed chicken that uh is not free
range very high in omega-6 fatty acids
highly inflammatory and of course they
have the breading on there with the
chemicals and then it's all deep fried
so we have the soy oil the GMO
glyphosate crap with the MSG to make it
taste good and it does taste good of
course you're not going to feel very
good after you consume it and then we
want to of course add the mac and cheese
we can't forget the mac and cheese right
which is basically highly refined pasta
with American cheese which by the way is
not even cheese you can check out my
video on that I put a link down below so
we just add more refined carbs to the
refined carbs and the protein let's add
a Coke to that let's add some more high
fructose corn syrup and a biscuit right
and this biscuit is made with corn
starch a lot of corn starch I don't even
think they actually put any wheat in it
but there's a lot of corn starch and
corn or soy hydrogenated oils okay and
of course that is heated more glycation
so this is a recipe for disaster for
your heart this is why a lot lot of
children are developing a fatty liver
this is why over 50 to 60 to 70% of the
population is going right towards
pre-diabetes and diabetes this is why
the great majority of the population has
metabolic syndrome high blood pressure
obesity dementia frequent urination
especially at night and the list goes on
and on and on now if you have a more
deadly or dangerous meal that you want
to share down below put it down below I
want to check it
out so if you're enjoying my content
which I hope you are and you're applying
this knowledge to your health and you
have a success i' would really
appreciate you sharing your success
story so click the link down below to my
website where you can upload your
success story so you can help Inspire
others
