the number one vitamin deficiency in
high blood pressure AKA hypertension is
what we're going to talk about this is
not just for high blood pressure it's
for anything related to the arteries
plaque in the arteries calcium in the
arteries this information is so vitally
important your doctors will not tell you
this because they're simply not trained
despite massive evidence if you have
high blood pressure the doctors should
always check for vitamin D levels
vitamin D is the most important vitamin
for the inside of the artery yet it's
completely ignored a person instead is
put on medication I mean if you look up
the actual cause of hypertension 90% of
it is called essential what does that
mean it means unknown cause you I'm
going to be bold and tell you that that
essential hypertension is a vitamin D
deficiency if we take a look at an
artery you have a very thin single cell
layer of tissue called the endothelial
layer that is inside the artery just
constantly reacting with things that are
in the artery itself whether there's too
much sugar or junk food or whatever that
little layer is going to respond and do
something and if a person is deficient
in vitamin D they lose massive
protection against that little layer of
cells and now the person is very
susceptible to the start of many
problems you have to realize that
vitamin D is one of the most potent
natural substances in existence there is
one study that I found that evaluated
over a thousand different compounds to
see which one most potently affected
this endothelial layer and guess what it
was vitamin D and you're about to learn
why vitamin D is so important number one
it's a potent anti-inflammatory number
two it's a potent antioxidant and number
three it directly increases something
called nitric oxide nitric oxide is is
something that keeps the arteries in a
state of vasod dilation and relaxation
when you don't have enough nitric oxide
the artery starts getting tight and your
blood pressure starts going up just
think about nitric oxide as something
that lowers blood pressure when that
little layer the endothelial layer
becomes dysfunctional you don't produce
nitric oxide anymore the whole thing is
controlled by vitamin D vitamin D helps
increase calcium absorption
in the intestine by 20 times so it can
support your bone health the calcium has
another very important purpose in the
body of providing communication
signaling between cells this is why the
body has all these different systems to
keep calcium very regulated and keep it
in the blood at all cost our bodies are
not stupid it doesn't just have vitamin
D as the only thing that controls
calcium in the bone or in the blood what
happens if you don't have enough vitamin
D to calcium in the blood you might
absorb some of the calcium from the food
you eat but not very much when you have
low vitamin D you're going to also have
low amounts of calcium and your body
does not like that but has a plan B I
got to bring up something new that a lot
of people don't know about but it's
something called the parathyroid there's
four glands that are on your thyroid
gland parathyroid hormone is a backup to
vitamin D if you're low in vitamin D the
parathyroid hormone is going to increase
and grab calcium from your bone and put
it into your blood to make sure that
there's always calcium in the blood what
happens if you're chronically low in
vitamin D like the majority of the
population you're going to get a
dysfunction of the parathyroid hormone
it's robbing a lot of calcium from that
bone and creating osteop porosis which
is a lack of certain minerals in the
bone and now the bone is going to be
very porous it's going to have holes in
it but at the same time you're going to
have a lot of calcification in the
arteries in the soft tissue all because
the parathyroid hormone is working like
crazy in excess they call this a
secondary hyper parathyroidism excess
secretion of the parathyroid hormone by
the parathyroid gland in response to low
calcium your joints are filling up with
this calcium other causes can stem from
a vitamin D deficiency low vitamin D
causes low calcium and causes the
parathyroid to co Haywire why am I
making such a big deal about this point
because most doctors are afraid of
vitamin D because they think if you give
too much vitamin D to a person it's
going to develop a Toxic effect this is
another confusion first of all I haven't
found any type of clinical data to show
that's true I've talked to Professor
Bruce Hollis who's a Pioneer in vitamin
D research and he told me that he's
never seen a case where vitamin D in
higher mounts caused this toxic hyper
calcemia effect but a chronic vitamin D
deficiency causing this calcium problem
is way way more common and that's what
we should be focusing on plus if we add
this additional data of adding vitamin
K2 to help mobilize calcium from the
arteries and more importantly adding
magnesium when we take vitamin D3
because magnes magnesium is literally
the regulator of this excess calcium
magnesium alone prevents so many
cardiovascular problems magnesium
removes excessive calcium to allow the
normal contraction relaxation and your
arteries have contractile tissue and
they're able to relax as well I want to
Circle back to this vitamin K2 for a
second because vitamin K2 actually helps
remove calcium from the arteries as well
then removes the calcium and puts it
deep into the teeth into the bone it
makes the bones really really solid but
you better take vitamin D with K2 why if
someone is chronically low in vitamin D3
what's going to happen is the arteries
are going to be more susceptible to
inflammation plaque hardening of the
arteries and I'm not even talking about
the arteries of the heart I'm talking
about peripheral arteries through the
entire body that's one of the biggest
risks for amputation of the lower part
of your extremities your feet vitamin D
can potently protect the arteries
they'll help the arteries become less
inflamed they will support the vascular
cells for nitric oxide combined with
vitamin K2 and magnesium you can really
keep that calcium from developing in the
wrong place the soft tissues if I
personally had high blood pressure I
would be taking 30,000 IUS of vitamin D3
every single day the best source of
vitamin D is the Sun but of course it's
hard to get enough sun in the summer
when you can get sun make sure a good
part of your body is exposed to Sun
about 40 minutes in the sun will give
you 20,000 IUS of vitamin D3 which is
not a significant amount if you look at
the toxicity of just that sun exposure
because even some lifeguards that are
exposed to the sun they'll get about a
100,000 IUS of vitamin D3 in a given day
the whole point is to get as much sun as
you can without burning yourself get
slightly pink and then come out of the
Sun so you can develop a tan but that
regular exposure is really really
important especially in preventing high
blood pressure if you already have high
blood pressure you should try the
combination of vitamin D3 with the
magnesium and K2 and just see what what
happens check with your doctor before
implementing anything that I have to say
because I'm not trying to bypass your
doctor I'm just trying to educate you on
some additional things that I think are
really really important thanks for
watching
