you know I've done a lot of videos on
keto and what you should be eating and
what you shouldn't be eating but
apparently I missed talking about
coconut milk and coconut water are they
okay on a ketogenic diet all right let's
first go to coconut milk now if you look
on the back of the label on coconut milk
out of a can uh there's higher amounts
of fat 58 grams of fat 13 grams of carbs
5 gram of fiber giving you a net carb of
8 Gram now you also have a large amount
of potum have 631 Mig of potassium and
just one cup not the entire can one cup
that's 8 O of coconut milk but then we
have other sources of coconut milk for
example the company silk has a coconut
milk four grams of fat because they
extract some fat and they add some water
because apparently they dilute some of
the coconut milk with water and it's
less fat so it's four grams of fat but
only one gram of carb so that's very
ketofriendly
and you have 310 milligrams of potassium
so depending on what type of coconut
milk you get um it's going to be more or
less ketofriendly but if we're only
dealing with eight grams of carbs that's
not too bad ju you just want to make
sure that your carbs are less than 30 uh
maybe even 20 to really get into ketosis
so coconut milk totally fine and uh I
like to use coconut milk with various
recipes and various Lattes or even in my
coffee now let's switch to coconut water
uh this has a bit more carb it has 11
gram of carb per cup and of course
because it's a water it doesn't have
much fat it's like it's like a half a
gram of fat but it has a lot of
pottassium it has 600 milligrams of
potassium and it has a good amount of
sodium which is 282 milligrams of sodium
so the potassium sodium ratios are
pretty good A lot of people consume
coconut water for electrolytes
personally I think the carbs are a
little bit too High because those carbs
really are sugar carbs and when I drink
coconut water I can feel um the blood
sugar swing about half hour after
consuming it but I will say uh depending
on how many carbs you have uh you could
probably still get away with it but if
you compare it to things like juice that
has 33 grams of carbs or soda which has
46 grams of carbs it's definitely a lot
better all right there's my summary on
coconut milk and coconut water so if
you're enjoying my content which I hope
you are and you're applying this
knowledge to your health and you have a
success i' would really appreciate you
sharing your success story so click the
link down below to my website where you
can upload your success story so you can
help Inspire others
