hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about something called subclinical
scurvy now what does scurvy mean scurvy
is a severe vitamin C deficiency ok
subclinical is something that doesn't
show up on a blood test or a usual test
so it might be that you're kind of
slowly developing a vitamin C deficiency
you're not quite a full-blown but it's
just before that phase kind of like a
pre-diabetes type situation in another
word for that is called latent scurvy
where you're have deficiencies but it
doesn't show up yet okay because you
just don't end up one day with a scurvy
it kind of slowly starts to happen and a
lot of people are deficient in vitamin C
in fact one out of five men are
deficient in vitamin C one out of nine
women are deficient in vitamin C one
person might have it in there like gums
is bleeding gums another person could
have it in their muscles as a weak
inflamed muscle where someone else could
have it in the arteries of the heart
okay so it could be different for
different people so that's why sometimes
it's hard to have this you know perfect
diagnosis of vitamin C deficiency and go
oh you have these three things that you
have it okay because it could be
actually have a wide range of things so
I wanted to kind of give you an overview
kind of just a general idea of what
could occur if you're starting to become
deficient in vitamin C and maybe you're
not a full-blown scurvy case but you
have some of the symptoms okay here
you're some of the symptoms fatigue you
feel weak irritable leg pain
inflammation achy joints muscles I mean
this is very very common now instead of
going out there and getting very
expensive tests to figure this out all
you have to do is start consuming foods
high in vitamin C and see if you get
better see if these things clear right
up and you're probably going to find
they do that's actually the easiest
thing to do but the tissue in your body
that is most susceptible to vitamin C
deficiencies is your vascular system
because vitamin C has the purpose of
keeping the collagen in the arteries
nice and strong and elastic okay when
you don't have
you get certain like little lesions or
holes in the arteries so vitamin C is
intimately involved in vascular
integrity okay and so you have capillary
damage which really happens with high
levels of sugar in the blood or glucose
in the blood being a pre-diabetic or a
diabetic and then you end up having high
insulin what happens is that high amount
of sugar competes with vitamin C so
you'll actually when sugar goes up your
vitamin C goes down then you become
susceptible to getting capillary damage
and so you have little areas of bleeding
in the artery in inflammation and then
comes the cholesterol and the calcium as
a band-aid this can also happen in your
skin as rosacea it can happen on the
gums as bleeding gums it can happen in
your nose as a nosebleed so really you
need vitamin C to protect you against
high levels of sugar because this can
also affect the capillaries to the
nerves as well another nutrient that
will protect this as b1 but vitamin C
will do it too so you want to start
increasing your vegetable content dark
leafy greens the bell pepper is loaded
with it cabbage sauerkraut fermented
actually has a tremendous amount of
vitamin C berries have vitamin C other
vegetables now citrus also has vitamin C
but when you buy bottled lemon juice or
lime juice it's pasteurized so there's
hardly any vitamin C in there so the key
with this is have actual lemons and get
your juice from the lemons if you're
trying to get your vitamin C from it
okay so I just wanted to bring this up
you may have these symptoms you want to
prevent this right here and the way you
do it is through the foods having foods
higher in vitamin C and also keeping
your Sugar's low
by doing keto and intermittent fasting
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know hey that runs
