let's talk about the best vitamin to
fight
glucoma now before you take any actions
that I'm about to recommend make sure
you check with your doctor I'm not
telling you to come off your medications
what I'm just trying to do is put this
on your radar because this data has been
really hard to find so I want to share
it with you because if you have glucoma
or know of someone I think they need to
know about Alternatives gloma is a
situation where you have this increased
pressure inside your eyeball and the
danger of that is it can put pressure on
the optic nerve and it could diminish
your vision to the point where it could
potentially cause blindness in fact
glaucoma is the second cause of
blindness uh with certain individuals
there's 80 million people in the world
that have glaucoma and 50% of them are
unaware that they have it and what I
stumbled on with glucoma is actually
quite fascinating and I had no idea that
gloma could potentially be an autoimmune
disease which will explain the natural
remedy I'm going to talk about now if
you typically research gloma with
natural remedies or vitamins or
nutrition or whatever you're not going
to find anything in fact you will see
some papers on this that says there's no
results don't even try of course that
doesn't convince me because first of all
who is going to invest hundreds of
thousands of dollars in research studies
so do we just hope and pray that someday
someone will do some research to prove
it or what about just trying something
natural to see if it works for you
especially when you hear what I'm going
to talk about in relationship between
glucoma and vitamin D in 2014 there was
a study done in Korea with over 6,000
people that showed a very high
correlation between low vitamin D and
glycom they found that people with
glycom had three times more problems
with the vitamin D receptor and in this
video I'm going to summarize uh a book
that I just found by a German doctor Dr
Harold shell wrote this book and it's
quite fascinating because he uses high
levels of vitamin D for all sorts of eye
problems and he's talking about all the
great results that he's getting and he
describes some really uh fascinating
information related to vitamin D and so
that caught my attention and I want to
summarize the book in this video and I'm
going to put a link down below of the
actual book pretty much every part of
the eye has a vitamin D receptor and if
this is truly an autoimmune disease then
vitamin D is involved so in autoimmune
diseases you have antibodies against
your own tissues and so there's
inflammation by your tea cells this
prevents your body from just functioning
normal and vitamin E comes in there and
it suppresses that reaction but the
problem is if you're you're already
deficient of vitamin D or you have
resistance to vitamin D and that is
probably more the case when you take
normal mounts of vitamin D you don't get
the therapeutic benefit and so then the
immune system is now overreacting out of
balance and the inflammation just stays
there now I just wanted to give you a
side note there's something called
steroid induced
glyca which means that when you take
steroids that can actually cause
glaucoma as well I think a great
percentage of the autoimmune cases have
a genetic problem with the vitamin D
receptor or the conversion from the
inactive to the active vitamin D or some
type of absorption of vitamin D and that
term collectively is called vitamin D
resistance and this is why to overcome
this resistance we need to go up with
the dosage of vitamin D if we take a
look at the normal amount of vitamin D
uh which is pretty pretty much outdated
there's certain references that will
tell you that if you're below 20 nog per
milliliter you're deficient but Dr
Harold shell says the normal range
should be a lot higher because the
initial norms for vitamin D were
established on certain healthy people
that live in a certain latitude on the
planet and they really didn't look at
all the other therapeutic benefits of
vitamin D because if you're just trying
to prevent bone loss or osteomalacia or
rickets or something like that that
maybe all it takes is a small amount but
Dr shell says that you need between 100
to 130 or even
150 nanograms per milliliter an average
doctor will look at that and freak out
and say wow that's going to be way too
high you're going to develop too much
calcium in the blood well you might want
to just hold on and get all the
information on this topic because there
is some fascinating data from Dr kre
from Brazil who treats auto immune
diseases and gets great results using
high levels of vitamin D and here's what
he recommends to start out with a th000
IUS of vitamin D per kilogram of body
weight now I'm about 84 kg of weight so
I would need
84,000 IUS of vitamin D3 every single
day because of that amount you're going
to get a lot of absorption of calcium
well one thing you need to realize is
when you test this vitamin D in the
blood you're not testing the active form
of vitamin D you're testing the inactive
form that has to be converted through
the various Pathways and if you have
vitamin D resistance despite taking
large amounts it might not connect to
the receptors so this is kind of a
protocol that allows you to increase
your vitamin D to the point where you
can overcome the resistance and actually
connec to that receptor to create a
therapeutic benefit to your immune
system so the big question is how do we
know that it's connecting to the vitamin
D receptor what you can do is you can
check your parathyroid hormone because
when you increase vitamin D okay and it
connects with the receptor your
parathyroid hormone will go down then
you know it's creating an effect on The
receptors for vitamin D so what happens
you start with this thousand IUS per
kilogram for a few months so you keep
tweaking the dose until you either
achieve between 100 and 150 nogs per
milliliter or the parathyroid hormone is
in the low normal range and then you
give it some time to work and to
minimize any potential calcium buildup
in the arteries you don't take a calcium
supplement number one you cut down on
some of the calcium foods you drink 2
and2 lers of fluid a day so you can
actually prevent a kidney stone and take
100 micrograms of vitamin K2 for every
10,000 iuse of vitamin D3 and I will put
that down in the description as well you
also want to take magnesium about 600
milligrams every single day magnesium
helps to prevent this calcium buildup as
well but let's say you don't have this
condition but your parents have it or
your grandparents have it and you want
to prevent it well just start taking
more vitamin D as a preventative measure
for a Cascade of body problems that
involve a potential autoimmune disease
or glucoma anyway I wanted to do an
update video on glucoma and give you
this data to put this on your radar in
case you want some Alternatives other
than the typical treatment if you have
not seen my video on vitamin D toxicity
that would be a really good one to watch
I'll put that up right here check it out
