hey guys Dr Burke here listen have you
ever had a friend or family member not
take your nutritional advice I know it's
shocking I mean here you give them this
great truth and they just don't jump all
over it right well today I want to talk
about why that is okay I want to teach
you this French word which is right here
e fix okay that's what that means this
fixed idea okay so this is a you can
look this up it's right online uh and
the definition of this would be the
preoccupation of the Mind believing to
be firmly resistant to any attempt to
modify it it's a fix fixation the name
originates from the French a day idea
and F which means fix
so this concept is basically a fixed
idea in someone's mind that they're
really unwilling to look at something
else so they're all their focus is on
their viewpoint but they won't look at
your Viewpoint okay so basically they're
not looking and that's how you're
running against it basically conflicts
with what they already know you might
tell them no no it's Dad it's okay to
eat cholesterol foods and they go no
it's not and then it creates a a little
situation so people that have these
fixed ideas have to be right about them
they cannot be wrong about them so when
you're trying to educate them about
something Above All Else make sure you
don't make them wrong okay because they
will fight you um I run into this on on
the net all the time okay and a lot of
you guys and I appreciate you stick up
from me I love some people that have a
different Viewpoint and they'll just go
off and off and they'll instead of
trying to understand something they'll
call call me names and all sorts of
things I just kind of laugh at that but
this new information that you're trying
to present to someone um really
invalidates their information okay now
usually when you have a fixed idea about
something you're not very flexible in
you're thinking about it you're just
like this is the truth despite your
results so let's say you're trying to
lose weight well chances are you might
have some fixed idea that's preventing
you from learning the correct way to
lose weight here's some examples of some
fixed ideas eat less and lose weight
right well I have so many people that do
that and they're not losing weight I
mean we've tried that for the last 40
years and people keep eating less and
less and less and it destroys your
metabolism and the more you diet you
can't lose weight so that's definitely a
fixed idea that people have or how about
this one everything in moderation I
always hear that you know I'll be
driving a car with someone and I'll say
well you know yeah well everything
moderation you know that's what they're
operating off of well that's preventing
them from being Su successful because
that allows them need a little bit of
sugar dessert and a little bit of this
and I even had my own fixed ideas
recently I had not recently I'd say
about a few years ago where um in my
book my last book I I told you to
consume five meals a day
you know with the snacks I told you to
consume apples well that was a fixed
idea that I had I had to be willing to
be wrong and correct myself in the new
addition you won't see that so
again you know the more someone um is
made wrong the more they will fight it
so you really have to be willing to look
at different viewpoints uh how about
this one drink eight glasses of water a
day to be hydrated right there are
people that believe that so strongly
that if you say something that counters
that they will literally attack you
that's an fixed idea how about this one
like only MDS credible MDS from
accredited University can give you good
information about health say well Dr
Burg you're not a medical doctor so why
should I listen to you well first of all
medical doctors are not taught a lot of
nutrition in fact it's probably maybe 8
hours in their entire schooling how can
they give you any information about
natural remedies or nutrition or food
therapy unless you've had experience you
really can't give good information now
they're experts in medication surgeries
things like that emergency care but when
it comes down to health um that would
probably be my last source to go to that
would be the a non-credible source okay
like when I used to train doctors um I
had a medical doctor who had this fixed
idea that she said the way to educate
patients is to give them a bunch of big
words so then that will impress them and
they'll think you're smart and then
they'll believe you I said no you're
going to confuse them you're going to
give them misunderstandings they're not
going to understand you and you're going
to be out of communication okay you want
to break it down so people can really
understand when you teach them right so
in summary when you run into friends and
family not taking your nutritional
advice just realize that they are
sitting on a fixed idea and that the
more you make them
wrong the worse it's going to get so you
have to be gentle you have to help them
understand understand it and I will
guarantee that they have some huge
misunderstandings in the area of this
right here like if you're trying to
educate them on cholesterol I guarantee
they don't even know what cholesterol is
as far as the definition of the purpose
or weight loss they don't know what
insulin is they don't understand what
metabolism is or what a calorie is I
will guarantee that so I would go into
that area and help them understand that
so they can actually be a little Freer
to look at your Viewpoint all right
thanks for
watching hey if you're enjoying my
videos press the Subscribe button below
and I will keep you updated on the
future events thank you so much
