you know the worst food for your teeth
is not sugar now it is true that sugar
does increase bacteria that make more
acids that can erode your teeth but
there's a much worse type of acid that
will severely erode your teeth and it
doesn't have anything to do with sugar
of course if we talk about fruit juice
like apple juice or orange juice is five
times worse than soda for your teeth
yeah interesting and I'm going to
explain why that is in just a minute
diet soda compared to regular soda can
you take a guess what's worse for your
teeth Believe It or Not diet soda might
be worse and I'm going to explain why
that is as well number two candy the
stuff that you suck on like a lollipop
for example you're constantly exposing
your teeth to a lot of sugar and that
could definitely create microbes that
make more acid number three powdered
starches starches can act just like a
sugar and uh feed these microbes and
create the acids and that would be like
modified food starch or modified corn
starch or molto DTR which is in pretty
much most junk foods and then we just
get liquid sugar as in high fructose
corn syrup drinks right and I'm talking
about the ones that you have added sugar
in this case you're not chewing you're
just bathing the teeth in just pure
sugar and just if we differentiate
between natural sugars like if you eat
fruit versus Dr drink the juice from
fruit especially if it's pasteurized
there's a big difference and then number
five we get into actual sodas with
phosphoric acid and believe it or not
phosphoric acid is not the worst acid
for your teeth there's another one
that's actually way more dangerous but
phosphoric acid is not good it's going
to leech the calcium out of your teeth
so here you have a soda with not just
liquid candy syrup like high fructose
corn syrup but also the phosphoric acid
but there's something else in there
which I'm getting to very shortly number
six is like the gummy bears it sticks to
your teeth so now we have the situation
where we take the sugar and we stick it
to the teeth and we keep the exposure uh
there longer which is going to increase
more bacterial fermentation and more
acid and you also have the caramel too
in different candies that are sticky but
the gummy bears are at the top of the
list now there's other things too that
people will talk about like acid reflux
coming up and ending up on your teeth of
course that's still not the acid that
I'm going to talk about the acid that is
the worst for your
teeth and I'm going to just read this
off of some of this sugar water right
here let see if I could see this right
here it says water sugar
dextrose and citric acid that is the
worst thing for your teeth citric acid
now citric acid isn't that a natural
thing yeah it's in lemons and limes and
things like that but they also make it
synthetically and apparently what's
unique about citric acid is that it's a
very powerful key later for calcium if
you saw my video on kidney stones you
take lemon juice why because the citric
acid binds with the calcium so it's a
super strong keator which means to claw
and bind okay into the mineral calcium
so if you're consuming this in certain
amounts you're basically eroding your
teeth and you're pulling this calcium
out of the teeth and what's interesting
is that the pH is not even that acid it
this is like going Beyond just the acid
problem and if you ever read a label on
a juice bottle guess what they add in
there citric acid what do they put in
diet sodas citric acid and out of all
the citrates it's the tri sodium citrate
that's the worst and it's usually
labeled as sodium citrate so citrate is
citric acid same thing and that is the
worst acid for erosion of your teeth
normally like um your pH should be
slightly neutral or alkaline okay which
is basically just slightly above seven
if the pH gets down around 5.5 or less
that's when you start to get erosion and
the loss of minerals not just calcium
you basically get demineralization of
your teeth so what does this mean in
Practical terms it means that if you
consume anything you should probably
take some water gargle with it and swish
it in your mouth and spit it out just so
you can clean your teeth of anything
whether it's sugar or citric acid I
think that would be a smart thing to do
and also other acids I would highly
recommend that you you know use the same
process of washing your teeth out with
water after you consume apple cider
vinegar and of course start reading
labels to make sure you're not consuming
so much citrate in these products now if
you're consuming like a potassium
citrate or magnesium citrate that's a
different situation that's actually
bound with a mineral and you're not
going to leech out your teeth it's going
to go into your digestive system and
it's not going to be a problem but
anything that actually exposes the
citrate to your teeth for any period of
time you have to really watch out for
now since we're on the topic of teeth I
think it'd be a really good idea for you
to have a good recipe
to make your own toothpaste and if you
want to check that out I put it up right
here
