in this video we're going to discuss how
high sugar or high insulin can destroy
your eyes okay so number one it affects
something called the retina the retina
is the back part of the eye it's all
nerve tissue it's kind of extension to
the brain so it's where all the
information comes in it's transmitted
into the brain so there's a condition
called diabetic neuropathy where the
tiny little blood vessels get damaged
and they leak and they basically starve
off the retina okay this is one of the
leading causes of blindness all right
then we have the macula the macula is a
central part of the retina okay it's a
smaller part of it and you can have a
condition called diabetic macular edema
why because the leaking blood that
happens in the vascular system around
this nerve tissue then you have
something called macular degeneration
now I've done videos before on this
where I talk about the carotenoids and
lutein which are phytonutrients in
cruciferous vegetables can greatly help
protect the macula so that way you can
actually eat donuts and candy and
cookies as long as you're consuming that
cruciferous you're totally okay and I'm
totally just kidding you you can't do
that okay you want to get the sugar out
of the diet get the junk out of the
trunk and then you want to start
consuming cruciferous vegetables so you
can actually heal the inside of the eye
okay so then we have the lens of the eye
you can get cataracts that's where you
get this cloudiness because this little
piece of protein starts clouding the
lens and things become blurry and then
you can't see and then you have to get
surgery on that high sugar and we're
high insulin can also affect the fluids
to dehydrate the eye cause dryness which
is a common symptom of pre-diabetic and
actual diabetics where you have this
like it's just like there's sand in the
inside of the eye or underneath the
eyelid or there's something in the eye
like a foreign object or it's really dry
and sticky okay it's high sugar and then
you have glaucoma which is basically
pressure inside the eye it's like a
little pressure cooker that's destroying
the nerves because there's too much
pressure in there and that also comes
from high sugar as well so if you know
of anyone that is starting to see
lured vision or double vision or having
eye issues definitely give them this
video because I put a link down below on
how you can start lowering your blood
sugars by eating better alright thanks
for watching hey guys I want to
personally invite you to a new Facebook
group that I just started called dr.
Berg's Kido and in a minute fasting lab
ok so I created this so we can share our
successful actions what worked what
didn't work the results so I put a link
down below so go ahead and sign up and
I'll see you inside
