hey Dr Berg here I'm back with the siba
collection I want to just explain a
couple things out of this uh book by
Frank net MD Incredible Book um just
kind of puts everything together a lot
of people are walking around with
problems with their adrenals and they
don't know it uh and they associate all
these symptoms separately but I just
want to kind of go through and tell you
a little bit about um what cortisol does
Cortisol is a stress hormone and it does
a lot of things it helps you survive but
if there's too much of it uh you will
drain out your anti-inflammatory
hormones so in other words the cortisol
is normally an anti-inflammatory but if
you have sustained stress over many
years the cortisol becomes depleted and
you start running out of your
inflammation your anti-inflammatory so
you're going to end up with inflammation
chronic pain and soreness and we call
that fibromyalgia fibromyalgia is simply
a severe lack of the anti-inflammatory
hormone cortisol is the main um um the
one of the only things in your body that
gets rid of inflammation now you might
say well wait a second I don't want it
because it's going to create belly fat
and then why why do I have belly fat and
I have high levels of inflammation and
uh also fibromyalgia which is soreness
through the entire body well it's kind
of like insulin when you have a lot of
you could have a lot of hormone in your
body but it's not effective it's not
getting received in the receptors so
it's kind of like if you were to have a
bunch of telemarketers call you every
day for a year eventually you're not
going to pick up so that you're not
going to receive the communication same
thing with cortisol when you have high
levels of stress for many years um your
body downgrades The receptors for
cortisol thereby not letting you absorb
them so they're high in the in the blood
or the saliva and that's why the belly
is fat but they don't but it doesn't
work for other things like
anti-inflammatories and especially
anti-allergic you can have you have
sinus allergies lots of people with
adrenal problems have sinus allergies or
they're all year round where the sinuses
start getting really thick and they
might have sleep apnea which is could be
the sinuses as well so one of the things
to counter that would be vitamin A uh
the Cal shake that I have in my website
you can go to Dr bird.com and watch me
make the Cal shakes it's very high in
vitamin A which is essential for the
sinuses and and different allergies um
so those are some of the the things that
occur there's a couple other things
number one increase neural excitability
that's the thinking and thinking and
thinking accessally can't turn off
there's a problem with u muscle wasting
your muscles you lose tone there's a
problem with um craving for salt there's
a problem with bone there's a problem
with belly fat and there's also a
problem with hypertension specifically
the top number that's called the
systolic versus the diastolic and
there's also a problem with sleeping
other than that the person's perfectly
fine
