all right so we want to talk about
headaches in relationship to doing Kido
and intermittent fasting okay this is
really a hypoglycemic type issue it's a
low blood sugar situation your selves
have not yet adapted to running on
ketones you're still running on glucose
and so if you implement in a minute
fasting and you try to go for a period
of time it drops the sugar okay now the
problem is that low blood Sugar's add a
tremendous amount of stress to the brain
the central nervous system and the
nerves overall so it's a tremendous
amount of stress in fact the brain is
the first organ to be affected by low
blood sugars okay because they depend on
glucose now there is an alternative fuel
called ketones but if you don't know how
to do it you're gonna run on glucose and
if you implement in fasting you're gonna
crash and burn
okay now headaches are a very common
symptom of hypoglycemia but to really
know if your headaches are connected to
low blood sugars all you have to do as
soon as you start getting this headache
is to consume some protein because that
should instantly improve your headaches
if it doesn't then it could be another
source all right and there's other
videos that I have that explain that
I'll put a link down below but the
solution to the headaches is to realize
that it's a blood sugar thing and go
into this more gradually so for example
if you're doing this at twice a day
you're eating twice a day and you're
getting headaches well add another meal
because you're not ready to go to two
meals a day okay if you're doing three
meals a day maybe you need to really add
a little more protein but again here's
the problem because medically speaking
what they'll do for hypoglycemia is they
will tell you to add more snacks like
five six meals a day which is a big
mistake even though you'll feel better
you'll never correct the problem you
might go wow I had some fruit I had some
protein I feel better but if you're not
working towards running your body and
ketones you're still going to have the
blood sugar situation because as soon as
you eat you're going to spike the
insulin it's going to come down
primarily because it's the frequency of
eating that keeps the insulin
very high and if you're trying to fix
this problem you want to work towards
going longer longer without snacking
okay so snacking is just a very quick
fix it's a temporary situation but we
want to go longer without eating in
general and the other bad advice would
be to add some candy I'll show you this
right here
mercs manual this is a medical book
under hypoglycemia first of all it says
the sign and symptoms headaches are a
big symptom of hypoglycemia now in this
next page they're talking about
hypoglycemia and diabetes which is a
little different than this but I wanted
to mention what they recommend diabetic
patients taking insulin should always
carry sugar lumps or candy with them and
the patients family and friends should
instruct in recognizing these symptoms
of hypoglycemia and in giving an
emergency treatment mentioned above now
I do understand that if it's an
emergency low blood sugar situation to
get it up pretty fast but there's no
real questioning on what's gonna correct
this problem how do we stop getting in
this situation because if you're taking
a certain amount of insulin and you're
ending them with low blood sugars then
why don't we take less insulin so it
doesn't drop so far okay I'm gonna do a
whole video on that but the point is
that if you get headaches when you do it
in a minute fasting or keto program
realize that it's a usually a blood
sugar situation you haven't adapted yet
and yes if you snack or eat protein
you'll feel better but you have to
really get the big picture and realize
that unless you adapt your body to
ketones
you'll never fix this issue alright
thanks for watching hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in Facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick it's
like three or four videos and it's free
check it out
