I want to share the best vitamin to help
shrink a fibroid so what is a fibroid
fibroid is a growth but it's not
cancerous fibroids are the number one
reason why women get hysterectomies uh
fibroids are very very common um I saw
one reference that 20 to 50% of all
women before the age of 50 have some
type of growth or fibroid or
endometriosis so first let's start with
the uterus what is the uterus well it's
part muscle in part gland you can look
at the uterus like the soil where the
seed or an egg implants and starts
growing and so it's really nutrient
dense it's Rich it feeds the egg once
it's fertilized and the uterus has
incredible regenerative properties I
mean researchers are now looking at how
can they use that in different places in
the body to help regenerate the tissues
the other thing that's fascinating about
the uterus is that it has the ability to
expand by
500x and of course I shared that
information with my wife Karen and her
reply was you think I don't know that
after three kids so of course I quickly
dropped that conversation here's the
information I stumbled on relating to
fibroids there's been some studies that
show that vitamin D can help reduce the
size of a fibroid now why would vitamin
D actually help you shrink a fibroid
vitamin D regulates the genes that
control growth and in one of the papers
I found the vitamin D receptor in a
fibroid are very different versus normal
uterus tissue that means that the
fibrous tissue is not going to receive
as much vitamin D which means it's going
to have less control over the growth I
mean if you think about it vitamin D
really isn't a vitamin it's a hormone
when someone's vitamin D deficient
they're a lot lot more at risk of
developing fibroids and the uterus is
very hormone sensitive and so there's an
enzyme called ratas that converts
androgens to estrogen and so there's all
sorts of Remedies and even medications
that can act as an aromatase inhibitor
and guess what vitamin D is a natural
aromatase inhibitor also vitamin D can
create an effect on the fibroid itself
if you have enough vitamin D suent
tumors and even cancers uh will start
committing suicide now that is a normal
process when a cell is damaged but the
thing about cancer and tumors the
problem with that is that somehow that
controlled cell death where the cell
becomes damaged and starts committing
suicide and now the cancer cell the
tumor cell just keeps growing growing
growing but vitamin D can help increase
that apoptosis in the fibroid now I'm
going to explain how much vitamin D to
take to to create this effect but I just
wanted to mention uh a Dr Bruce Hollis
who basically did a lot of the original
research on vitamin D and he's a
professor and he has over 500 papers
okay mostly related to vitamin D and in
some of his videos it's very interesting
because this is what he said he said
that uh a lot of the positive result
type studies and vitamin D are rejected
by the top journals and he left me with
an impression that it's almost as if
they don't want people to know about
this positive vitamin D effect now
relating to that I want to bring up
another study it's a quite large study
which was called the vital study so this
was a study involving 25,000 adults it's
a quite large study and apparently it
was no benefit to vitamin D or omega-3
in reducing major cardiovascular events
or cancer if we actually read the study
there's a couple things about this study
that's a little fishy the analysis of
the study excluded the first two years
of followup which showed
significant reduction of cancer number
two if you separate out the people that
actually weren't overweight versus the
overweight and obese people there will
was a much lower risk of getting cancer
for the people that had normal weight
now the reason I'm bringing that up is
because people that are obese overweight
need more vitamin D because vitamin D
gets stored in the fat cells and if
someone is obese that vitamin D is going
to be deluded they also admitted some
limitations one is there was only one
dose of vitamin D per day you think
10,000 no 2,000 I use they're calling
2,000 IUS high does vitamin D also
there's data to indicate that they
really uh did not follow the criteria
for a true randomized Placebo controlled
trial they also omitted the information
on exposure to Sun how much people were
outside versus inside they didn't follow
up and assess uh vitamin D in
94% of the participants so what would I
do if I had a fibroid I would take about
50,000 IUS of vitamin D now I know
you're thinking boy that's a lot that's
a toxic amount what am I going to do
about the side effects of that Etc but
if you take vitamin K2 you take
magnesium zinc Boron vitamin B6 these
are all the co-actors that protect you
against hyper calcemia too much calcium
in the blood and if you're taking 50,000
IUS of vitamin D3 every day the amount
of K2 that you would need I would take
about 500 microgram with that I would
also take 800 Mig of magnesium very
important magnesium will help reduce the
calcium formation I would also take 50
milligrams of zinc and then I would also
take vitamin B6 and Boron and as far as
the amounts whatever is recommended on
the bottle I would also get on the
ketogenic diet why to reduce my insulin
because insulin can actually increase
the growth of fibroids and lastly I
would be consuming a good amount of
cruciferous vegetables to help any other
things that can mimic estrogen also I
would limit the amount of milk you
consume milk is used to grow a calf so
there's a lot of growth factors but also
the calcium in milk right can be another
situation that you want to reduce if
you're taking a lot of vitamin D and the
next video you really need to know about
is vitamin D toxicity topic I don't even
believe vitamin D toxicity comes from
the vitamin D I think it's the lack of
co-actors and for that information check
out this video right here
