I want to share something very important
with you relating to your immune system
to get through the winter and avoid
getting sick and even if you did get
sick to have very good outcomes there
are seven really vital nutrients that I
think are more important in other
nutrients and I'm going to try to
explain this in a really simple way so
you really get it and also how to get
these nutrients from the food that you
eat some of these nutrients I'm going to
talk about are very deficient in a very
large percent of the population so that
includes you you need to a little more
information on like what this nutrient
does and where to get it let's start
with the nutrient number one
vitamin A it's one of the more important
vitamins for your immune system
especially for lung infections vitamin A
helps you make antibodies now what's an
antibody it's something that helps tag a
bad guy in your body like a pathogen and
it helps the other parts of your immune
system know who's the bad guy versus the
good guy so we don't want to attack the
wrong cell right so the antibody is all
about tagging someone so it would be
like a bounty hunter that's going out to
find some criminal they may not do the
punishment right put them in jail but
they help find the criminal that's what
your antibodies do I mean think about
what a job that is you have so many
cells the body is huge and these
antibodies are going around scanning
looking for these pathogens and somehow
they can identify them and then they can
tag them and then they then communicate
to the rest immune system to kill okay
so that's what your immune system does
and without enough vitamin A your
ability to produce antibodies and tag
pathogens are greatly reduced so now
your body has a lessened ability to
recognize the bad guys and there's
something else vitamin A helps your
immune system coordinate this attack
because it increases this very specific
T Cell called the T helper cell that's
all about coordination I guess it'd be
equivalent to like a symphony
orchestrator which is out there
coordinating the various musicians and
their instruments if you didn't have
that person it would all be chaos so the
T helper cell does a lot of coordination
in this attack so without vitamin A you
can't tag the bad guy and then you can't
coordinate this attack with your army
now where do you get vitamin A a good
source would be grass-fed butter you can
also get it from other things too like
egg yolks liver but I would not count on
getting your vitamin A from plant Foods
because that mainly is going to be
beta-carotene that has to convert into
the active form of vitamin A which is
retinol and for most people it's not
going to happen so more butter through
the winter more butter to support your
immune system all right the next vitamin
which you may not connect the dots
between this nutrient and your immune
system is vitamin E now vitamin E is a
very potent antioxidant that protects
the lipid membranes okay so all your
cells have a little fat layer it's a
membrane and it's made from lipids and
vitamin E protects that membrane from
being damaged by your immune system and
many other things I mean think about
what's happening you have this immune
system which is your army that's going
to fight these pathogens right so
they're going to use weapons one weapon
they use is hydrogen peroxide if you
ever put hydrogen peroxide on an open
wound you see it all fizzing and it
starts to oxidize and it starts to
create this reaction well think about
what that will do to a pathogen it
literally kills pathogens right well all
this is happening inside your body so
you're getting exposure to hydrogen
peroxide and many other weapons from
your own immune system so vitamin E is
there to protect against all this
collateral damage and if you didn't have
enough vitamin E well you'd have a lot
of damage that's occurring from your
immune system that is unnecessary this
is also another problem with people
taking like chemotherapy or radiation
therapy yes it kills the cancer but it
also kills off the immune system right
if you have to take chemo or radiation
therapy for cancer I would highly
recommend also at the same time doing
things like vitamin E taking other
nutrients to protect you against all
this collateral damage and just as a
side note one thing you can do to
protect yourselves against the damage
from chemotherapy and radiation therapy
is fasting prolonged fasting your cells
will automatically become stronger and
live longer if you're fasting and at the
same time you have to do the chemo and
radiation therapy so vitamin E protects
against the collateral damage okay
that's one thing it does also without
enough vitamin E the ability of your T
cells and other things called the
phagocytes that actually eat up
pathogens just are less strong so that's
about a minivus and guess where you can
get vitamin E from butter okay you can
also get it from leafy greens you can
all also get it from nuts in egg yolks
because it's a fat soluble vitamin the
next most important vitamin which is
probably the most important vitamin is
vitamin D I've done
lots of videos on vitamin D on the
importance of what it can do to your
immune system I mean just across the
board it influences every single part of
your immune system but one of the most
important things that vitamin D will do
is it helps to curb or calm down an
overactive immune system so if your
immune system
is a little too enthusiastic okay and
it's like going in hyper mode and you
have too much inflammation vitamin D can
come in there and chill it out
so any condition that you have that
involves too much inflammation
especially chronic inflammation like
chronic arthritis autoimmune or even the
cytokine storm involved in like an
infection vitamin D can come in there
and just turn that thing right off it
can also lessen the duration of
infection one of the most amazing things
it does is it just puts out the fire
okay but you need a lot of it you need
um not just 600 IUS you need about 10 20
30
000 IUS if you're going through an
infection and guess where you can get
vitamin D you can get it from butter you
can get it from cod liver oil you can
get it from the Sun but not during the
winter so many people just take it as a
supplement but it's a very important
nutrient and you should know more about
that because most people are deficient
in vitamin D the next most important
vitamin is Vitamin C you can get a lot
of it from raw sauerkraut not
pasteurized sauerkraut but raw okay you
get like 700 milligrams that's 10 times
what you really need in one cup of raw
sauerkraut incredible but vitamin C is
one of those vitamins that helps to
increase your resistance and lowers your
susceptibility to getting a pathogen but
because it's an antioxidant it also can
lower the collateral damage just like
vitamin E will do but vitamin E protects
the fat layered membranes vitamin C
helps other things in your body from
getting damaged so if there's a lot of
oxidation free radical damage
inflammation vitamin C protects the
tissues against all this collateral
damage from your own immune system and a
lot of times when you feel sick or you
feel lethargic or you feel tired or you
have a fever or you have any negative
reaction when you get sick it's this
collateral damage that's causing it so
vitamin C can help clean that up and
make you feel better as you're going
through the infection the same thing
with vitamin E but the other thing that
vitamin C will do is it increase
increases neutrophils neutrophils really
due to three things okay they eat
pathogens for lunch right they eat
viruses bacteria parasites yeast fungus
mold that's one thing they also will
release Weaponry like microbial agents
that kill
microbes so it's kind of like they have
this shotgun that they can use against
microbes and the third thing that they
do it's pretty cool they actually throw
a net over the pathogens and contain the
pathogen so they can then inject certain
chemicals to dissolve and kill the
pathogen they're like a little spider
that can throw the net over the pathogen
so those are the three ways that
neutrophils work and they are dependent
on vitamin C and again you can get
vitamin C from sauerkraut but you can
get it from all the leafy greens even
you can get some vitamin C from
grass-fed grass finish beef believe it
or not as well as grass-fed
grass-finished liver the next most
important nutrient that you need to know
about is zinc you probably already know
that but zinc is involved in several
hundred enzymes okay without zinc a lot
of things can't work in your body but
one of the most important interesting
things that zinc will do to your immune
system is to allow the thymus to do its
job the thymus makes T cells it's like a
training camp for your immune system
and it's dependent on zinc without zinc
the thymus actually shrinks way down it
can't work right zinc allows the
training of your immune system so
without enough zinc your T cells get
suppressed so they can't go to battle
they can't fight the weapons that they
are supposed to have are limited and the
ammo that is released is suppressed so
you're basically cutting down your army
without having enough zinc and there's a
lot of people that don't have enough
zinc
primarily because you're eating a lot of
refined grains with phytates that are
blocking the zinc a lot of cereals
breads pasta cereal crackers things like
that whole grains okay and you can get
zinc from shellfish okay oysters you can
also get zinc from other things like
eggs
red meat as loaded with zinc there was
an interesting study on mice okay where
they had one group that was deprived of
zinc and the other group was fed enough
zinc and both groups were exposed to a
deadly parasite and in the group that
was Zinc deficient there was an 80
percent mortality rate 80 percent of
these mice died the zinc deficient group
and in the other group only 10 percent
of the mice died and this was the group
that had enough zinc it tells us that
zinc is very important in surviving
infections okay number one and having an
immune system to protect us against
these pathogens no matter if it's virus
parasite bacteria the next nutrient I
want to talk about is selenium
selenium is a trace mineral to help you
make glutathione which is another
antioxidant which protects the body from
free radical damage oxidation it
protects the lipids as well it also
protects against inflammation okay all
that collateral damage and if you're
deficient in selenium your immune system
is no longer as potent as it should be
it has a more difficult time fighting
pathogens and it also has a difficult
time protecting the your normal tissues
from all the collateral damage there is
a another study on mice that had a group
that was deficient in selenium
and compare that to a group that had
enough selenium and they were both
exposed to a parasite not the same
parasite but a different parasite and in
the group that was selenium deficient
okay they all suffered multiple organ
failure okay
as compared to the group that had
sufficient selenium so that would be
just another example even though the
studies weren't done on humans I think
it's something to look at it's something
they appreciate and the problem with
doing human studies is that who's going
to volunteer for this study not me so
where can you get selenium seafood and
Brazil nuts and the last nutrient I want
to comment on is copper copper works
with zinc I haven't talked a lot about
copper but copper is very important for
your immune system as well if you don't
have enough copper you're more
susceptible to getting infections okay
copper also works with selenium
in making certain enzymes to protect
against collateral damage because it can
act as an antioxidant but it's also
directly involved in immune system
function and specifically in recruiting
help with other parts of the immune
system so if you don't have enough
copper your cells won't be coordinated
enough to recruit for help to have the
full capacity of your immune system at
the barrier that you're defending from
and copper can be gotten from shellfish
seafood and beef Meats it's an eggs it's
in a lot of different foods now I've
recently did a very interesting video on
What vitamin D does to your immune
system it's a little bit more in depth
and you really need to watch that
because once you watch that
you'll have the complete knowledge of
vitamin D in its relationship to
bulletproofing yourself against
pathogens and I put that video up right
here check it out
