hi guys another question that I want to
answer and this person wonder now why am
I so exhausted and so tired when I do
intamin fasting okay well if you're on a
keto
and you're doing in a minute fasting
together and your blood sugars are low
it could mean that you're going too fast
okay because if you just start this and
you go too fast your body has not
adapted yet so what's happening is you
don't eat so the blood sugars go down
and because your brain needs some fuel
you're gonna be tired in the head okay
you can bring your mood down it can make
you feel cranky you can cause a headache
but it could definitely make you feel
tired so it could be that you're going
too fast and you need to add a meal in
between here okay so that's one but
let's say for example you're doing this
for a period of time and you're not
adapting how do you what's happening and
how do you get into this key to adapt
ation because that's when you really
start having a lot of abundant energy
okay
so there's some other things you can
look at too if the adrenal is involved
and the dream is weak it will not be
able to stabilize this blood sugar
problem and rebound it so it ends up
going down in which case you need more
salt okay sea salt so one of the
symptoms of adrenal fatigue is a
deficiency in sodium okay so by adding
salt you actually can recharge the
adrenals and just take some salt and see
if it makes you feel better and then we
know the adrenals are involved okay of
course you also have to look at stress
and sleep and B vitamins ok b1 is
important potassium is important but
also b5 so you could be fatigued just
because you need more vitamin b5 b5 is
really important and strengthening your
adrenals okay so that could solve the
whole problem right there now the next
thing it could be is your liver because
the liver helps you store sugar between
the meals so if you have a history of a
liver damage whether it's an
inflammatory thing like Abba Titus or a
fatty liver or you have a history of
eating a lot of junk foods or not eating
enough vegetables and then we know you
have to support the liver so one thing
that's really good for the liver in
addition to large quantities of salad
are dandelion greens you can go to the
health
and get a bunch or in your backyard and
then you can consume that your liver
really does well on dandelion greens
okay now one last thing you might want
to check if your stomach is not acid
enough okay you may want to just add
some opposite of vinegar in some water
drinking with the meal and that could
actually bring your energy up these are
all just things that you can try out but
how do you know if you don't have enough
stomach acid well just drink some apple
cider vinegar and see if you feel better
some of the symptoms of low stomach acid
would be intestinal gas indigestion
bloating when you eat and heartburn okay
alright so go ahead and apply this and
let me know how it goes hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
