hi guys listen I want to I want to clear
up a confusion that people have
especially if they're cutting calories
but they're not losing weight I don't
know if this ever happened to you but so
many people keep telling me this over
and over again I'm I don't know reducing
my calories I'm just not ending up with
weight loss well there's a couple things
you need to know this only works the
first time you do it this only works if
you're 18 years old or you have a
healthy metabolism or your hormones are
really really healthy okay every time
you do it again and again and again
again um you're going to slow your
metabolism your body is going to adjust
to the calories that you're inputting
into it okay so basically dieting
reduces your metabolism it destroys the
set point that weight point that your
body gravitates into comfortably some
people it's 150 some people it's 180
some people it's 130 um so no matter
what you do whether eating your body
kind of goes into that certain comfort
zone that's your set point the way way
to destroy your set point is to
diet now we really have three variables
we have your calories that you're eating
from fats proteins and
carbohydrates you have your actual
metabolism your body efficiency of
burning those calories and then you have
your activity level and you have all
different combinations of all three okay
what you need to know is that even now
there are more calories in fat than
carbohydrate
the calories in fat and protein as far
as food are not all used to make fuel a
good amount of the protein and fat that
you eat are replacing body tissue okay
muscle brain tissue cell hormones
neurotransmitters all that but 100% of
the calories from carbohydrate are used
for
fuel so this idea that I'm going to
start cutting back calories on fat for
example thinking that's going to end up
in weight loss may not work for you all
right so I just want to clear that
up now you could it's true that you can
start to exercise more all right and
burn off more calories because everyone
knows if you you just need to cut
calories and exercise more and you're
going to lose weight but not necessarily
because the calories that you're burning
might not be fat calories so if your
goal is just to burn calories in
general you may be burning
stored calories as sugar calories that's
your glycogen Reserve or your actual
muscle protein is that the kind of
calories you want to lose I don't think
so so really um I think your goal is to
burn fat right so to do
that what you have to do is you have to
manipulate and understand the hormone
aspects of this if you cut your
carbs you're going to lower insulin okay
and that will force your body to start
tapping into fat the hormone that
determines whether you burn your stored
sugar or muscle or actual fat is insulin
so you got to keep insulin low I put
several links down below to get that
information of how to do that but in
this video I wanted to kind of clear up
some general concepts on calories and
why lowering your calories may not work
for weight loss especially if your
metabolism is slow all right so put your
comments below tell me what you think
