hi guys in this video I'm going to share
with you some feedback on the problems
with the Atkins diet okay so I have the
Atkins new diet revolution and the
Atkins new diet cookbook a little
conflicting but here's the here's the
problem that I have on some references
it says you can have one cup one to
three cups of vegetables okay that's way
too low
if you don't consume enough vegetables
how are you going to flush out all the
fat you're going to end up with a fatty
liver because the vegetables actually
counteract all that protein okay
it also says right here if you're not
hungry
okay consume nothing skip food skip a
meal or consume a protein snack bad
advice because you're going to stimulate
insulin protein will trigger insulin so
you're going to raise the insulin you
get to lower the blood sugars boom
you're going to be hungry and craving
again so we are trying to avoid insulin
okay that's bad advice also they
mentioned not to skip meals which right
down here do not skip meals well if
you're not hungry
skip the meal because if you eat when
you're not hungry you're just going to
raise insulin again allows artificial
sweeteners so that's what they're
recommending aspartame again our
personal sweeteners can have a tendency
to increase insulin and knock you out of
ketosis I mean try an experiment check
your ketones before and after you'll see
for yourself
consume three meals a day or five small
meals okay well again you don't want to
do that because you're going to spike
insulin five times and you want to only
do three meals or maybe even two meals
okay and also down here unlimited
protein again anything more than six
ounces maybe seven ounces you're going
to start to generate more insulin too
much protein stimulates insulin so these
are the problems with the Atkins diet
now some people can lose weight on it
very easily because they're doing a
modified version and their metabolism is
very very fast just because they're
cutting out all the carbs but if you
tweak this and do more ketogenic and do
it healthily you can really control your
them actually fix it okay thanks for
watching sub scribe press hey thanks for
someone press the subscribe button now I
forgot what to say I will see you in the
next videos what am I going to do
subscribe to the press button and oh
yeah send you additional information
press the subscribe button and I will
keep you updated on the future event
