you know it's really sad that people
don't take cod liver oil like they used
to like your grandmother probably gave
you Cod Li oil right then we dropped it
out uh cod liver oil is a superfood and
I'm going to explain why cod liver oil
has like four main really important
things omega-3 fatty acids EPA the
anti-inflammatory DHA which is more to
support your brain and your nerve cells
but omega-3
is significant when it comes down to the
hardcore research on the benefits and
the problem with all the omega-6 fatty
acid seed oils they compete for this
omega-3 and a lot of people are just are
not getting enough but cod liver oil
also has two additional things it's a
good source of vitamin D it's also a
good source of vitamin A now I've talked
extensively about vitamin D on my
YouTube channel but I want to spend a
little more time on this vitamin A to
really um educate you on on what that
does but if we just compare codiv oil to
fish oil very very different you would
need like
12,000 milligrams of fish oil to be
equal to one tablespoon of cod oil now
if we want to get vitamin A from
sardines if we compare that one
tablespoon of cive oil you're talking
about like a half of a pound of
sardines and then if you look at Salmon
Oil you'd have to consume five times as
much salmon oil as you would that cve
oil so Dr Price a dentist did an amazing
job on a book which I'm going to put the
link down below talking about indigenous
diets and uh some of them consume Cal
oil and he really recommended this cver
oil with high vitamin butter because the
grassfed butter contains good amount of
vitamin K2 lot of benefits also for
children and also women who are pregnant
that have kids that then want a very
good dental structure because if you're
deficient in some of these factors
you're going to probably need braces
possibly you might have bone deformities
so these fat cyle vitamins early on are
essential for the skeletal development
of your body but to get vitamin K2 you
don't just need butter you can get it
from grass-fed cheese you can get it
from egg yolks sauerkraut and when you
buy civer oil okay sometimes people
don't like the smell the taste what
you're smelling is the fish uh protein
civer oil uh doesn't have a lot of heavy
metal toxicity because these heavy
metals don't accumulate in the fat most
of the civa oil comes from Norway and
also one of the factor if you're going
to get your omega-3 fatty acids from
algae you're not going to have the
vitamin A you're not going to have the
vitamin D and I definitely wouldn't
recommend that source for children I
think the ultimate thing to do is to
have the mother consume it so then it
comes through the breast milk and that
way you can get it in the ultimate form
but this idea that you can get your
vitamin A from fruits and vegetables is
absolutely positively not true
unfortunately the FDA allows certain
manufacturers to claim beta carotene as
Vitamin A when in fact it's not right
now the number one most frequent
autoimmune disease on planet Earth is
Hashim Modo and there a huge huge tight
connection between a vitamin A
deficiency and hypothyroidism especially
uh if it's autoimmune because there's
vitamin A retinol receptors right inside
your white blood cells vitamin A also
helps you regulate iodine then over here
you have the function of vitamin A
influencing the mucous membranes of your
mouth of your sinuses of your throat of
your lungs this is why vitamin A is so
important to prevent infections and even
the microvilli roots on the inside of
your intestinal tract right those are
influenced by vitamin A as well this is
probably why they call Vitamin A retinol
as in the retina if you're deficient in
retinol uh you can go blind so you're
beginning to see the importance of Civ
oil because it's a great source of this
vitamin A I personally don't like liver
but I can do civil
and you can also get it in a capsule
dehydrated cive oil too if you don't
like the taste I'm not going to even get
into the vitamin D function uh you
probably have heard me talk about that a
lot without vitamin D which by the way a
lot of people are deficient they're not
going to really pull that calcium or
magnesium in their body so if a person
consumes a lot of like beans legumes
cereals especially oatmeal it's higher
in phytic acid that means the need for
Vitamin D goes up so this is why I would
put Civ oil in the category of a
superfood just because it's really hard
to find a food that has all the fat
cable nutrients not the ones that are
precursors I'm talking about the active
forms vitamin D vitamin A and plus this
amazing omega-3 fatty acid when we're
looking at the immune system and we're
looking at inflammation think cive oil
and I think the next most important
video for you to watch would be on
vitamin K2 uh if you have haven't seen
this one I think you'll really enjoy it
I put it up right
here
