I wanted to create a video in tapioca
because I've gotten this question over
and over and over again is tapioca keto
friendly
let's take a look at it where does
tapioca come from well it's a starch
that comes from the cassava plant and if
you think about how many carbohydrates
it has
it's quite high in fact the
carbohydrates from cassava flour is 25
percent more than white wheat flour now
if we compare tapioca flour not fiber
which we're going to get to in a second
with almond flour and we compare a
fourth of a cup
with tapioca you're getting 27 net carbs
but with almond flour you're only
getting three net carbs so you could see
that tapioca can get out of control very
very fast but now I want to show you
something that's very very interesting
because recently
you'll see this ingredient in a lot of
so-called keto friendly products or
snacks or bars or powders or recipes
soluble tapioca fiber it sounds pretty
safe right and soluble tapioca fiber is
the same exact thing as Prebiotic
tapioca fiber which is the same thing as
organic non-GMO tapioca fiber well this
may not be organic but it's usually not
gml because they don't grow cassava GMO
but all of these are very very similar
if not the same
now here's the problem when you do
research on this right here you're not
going to find hardly anything out there
especially if the the glycemic index
what you are going to find is tapioca
fiber is a very big common source for
Imo
isomaligosaccharide this is a common
sweetener so-called keto friendly fiber
sweetener and a lot of the ingredients
that you'll see in fact I used to
recommend it in one of my videos until I
found out it creates some problems so I
no longer recommend it I didn't know it
at the time because if when you did
research on it it didn't have some of
the studies that they have now but
isomal legal saccharide has the same
glycemic effect
as glucose and dextrose does so on the
glycemic index
glucose is at a hundred okay
sugar like table sugar
is between 65 and 70.
so IMO is a hundred on the glycemic
index it is way up there it will spike
your blood sugar so when you're
consuming the soluble tapioca fiber
which sounds very very safe because it's
a fiber and in fact if I'm not mistaken
they can even list it as the fiber which
could be a hidden source of a lot of
carbs and you don't even know it now the
reason that they use it is because it
makes the dessert taste really great and
sweet and it gives it a nice texture and
it's very very convenient because it
comes in the syrup and it's you can mix
it up and it comes out beautiful if
you're making cookies or certain keto
desserts the source of most of this is
from China but the big problem is when
you actually are using this ingredient
it's very similar to using just straight
glucose or dextrose it's not even that
you're using sugar table sugar you're
using something that is worse than sugar
so if you want to stay keto friendly and
stay in ketosis
I would recommend staying away from
not only tapioca flour but definitely
tapioca fiber and if you want a video on
some better sweeteners check out some of
these videos on the screen
hey I just want to say thank you so much
for your attention for you watching this
content I really appreciate it and I
would love your feedback as an unbiased
review I put a link down below so go
ahead and click it and tell me what you
think about this content
