hi guys we're going to talk about how
you can use egg yolks to support and
strengthen your brain now one of the top
nutrients for the brain is called
phosphatidylcholine if the new word kind
of long but fossil teetle choline you
have to say that three times to really
get it down this healthy fat is a major
part of all your cell membranes that
helps to build the outside of the cell
it's an awesome nutrient to support
brain function to improve memory
concentration and overall focus it's
also good for liver repair especially
for chronic hepatitis type A B and C so
you can also get in soybeans but the
problem is most soy beans are GMO so you
don't want to do that you can find it in
Atlantic mackerel and herring it's an
organ meats but I usually get it from
egg yolks I do four eggs every single
day I've been doing that for a long time
decades so if you're afraid about
consuming eggs just realize that it will
not increase your bad cholesterol only
the good cholesterol so it's very
therapeutic for your nervous system your
brain in a lot of other conditions hey
if you haven't already subscribed press
the button below and I will keep you in
the know hey that rhymes
