hey guys so there's been a lot of
complexity and confusion around
antioxidants and free radicals so I
wanted to create a short video to
explain the simplicity of it okay so we
take a look at most atoms which are
composed of electrons protons and
neutrons okay that form molecules and
chemistry in the physical universe this
is kind of like the building blocks most
atoms have paired electrons so they kind
of balance each other out a free radical
has unpaired electrons so we have
electron on one side but not on the
other so if you can envision kind of a
disk spinning with maybe a weight on one
side and you spin it it's going to be
lopsided it's going to go around and
create a lot of damage but if we take a
weight and balance it out it'll spin
really nice and symmetrical so free
radicals create damage on ourselves and
the DNA and the mitochondria they create
a lot of oxidation just like you would
get rust in a car same thing can happen
in our bodies so example of things that
give off free radicals are the
irradiation different chemicals hydrogen
peroxide if you have some in your house
and you poured it on an open wound to
clean it you can see it just fizzes and
just starts to oxidize the tissue that's
hydrogen peroxide and then we have
something called free iron or free
copper and the body iron and copper is
normally bound to protein but it's very
dangerous when it's free to create havoc
so these two are considered free
radicals and then we have high levels of
sugar which creates a lot of oxidation
in the arteries of our bodies and the
tissues
now antioxidants basically donate an
electron to neutralize or stop the free
radicals so they donate an electron to
balance it out okay
so thereby neutralizing the damaging
effects of these guys right here so that
would be the vitamin C vitamin E alpha
lipoic acid selenium compounds which
work with glutathione beta carotene
which is a part of the vitamin a complex
coenzyme q-10 so you'd get these in
super foods leafy greens
Sepphoris a lot of healthy foods so it's
really just a matter of avoiding the
things that create oxidation and
consuming the things that balance in
repair and neutralize these things right
here all right thanks for watching so
we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
