so I want to talk about the
sodium-potassium ratios that we need
typically a person thinks of sodium
being dangerous to the heart blood
pressure and can even increase the risk
of getting a stroke but the question is
is it the higher amount of sodium or is
it the deficiency of potassium now I'm
going to put some links down below that
talk about potassium being protective
against strokes the kidney the heart in
potassium actually lowering blood
pressure so what's even more important
than these two minerals is the ratio
they come in normally you would need
4700 milligrams for potassium and 2300
for sodium and an average person has
them flipped and that's what's going to
put them in trouble so ideally you would
need two to one but if there's already
an imbalance or you have a problem with
the heart or blood pressure I would
raise potassium three to one or even a
four to one ratio but it does take a
period of time to correct this it could
take months or even a couple years but
the more sodium that you have in the
diet the lower the potassium so they
kind of work in opposites now what's
interesting is one ounce of bread
contains 210 milligrams of sodium two
tablespoons of salad dressing at the
grocery store can give you over 500
milligrams of sodium six ounces of pizza
that's actually one slice is almost a
thousand milligrams of sodium right
there eight ounces of v8 will give you
over a thousand milligrams and one
little can of tomato soup is one
thousand two hundred and sixty
milligrams of sodium that's a tremendous
amount of sodium with the carbohydrates
okay so not only do we have more sodium
we have more carbs and the carb depletes
potassium plus the sodium we use in
carbohydrates are not in the form of sea
salt it's in the form of sodium chloride
so you don't have all the other minerals
involved sea salt has 84 minerals table
salt has
these foods usually have MSG monosodium
glutamate which is additional sodium
that they don't factor into the label
there so in America we're really heavy
on the sodium the carbs and very low on
potassium so this is the perfect
chemistry to set someone up for high
blood pressure and eventual
cardiovascular problems so the point of
this video is to understand that these
ratios of potassium sodium are more
important than these minerals
individually as long as you're doing a
two to one ratio you're going to be good
and if you want to correct it go up to a
3 to 4 to 1 ratio and that'll work even
faster if you're the person that doesn't
have a lot of potassium in the diet you
don't like vegetables well you just
better make sure that your sodium is
very very low as well so you can keep
these ratios in check so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
