hey guys Dr Berg here in this video I
want to talk about the best rheumatoid
arthritis tip okay and this is working
with lots of rheumatoid uh clients over
the years here's what you need to know
rheumatoidarthritis is an autoimmune
disorder your body has developed
antibodies attacking the joints the
joints are
deforming uh rheumatoid arthritic
clients always have severely low
potassium levels that's interesting and
they always have low cortisol which
makes sense because cortisol is an
anti-inflammatory hormone and that's why
the remedy for rheumatoidarthritis is
predone or cortisone shots okay so um
here's here's what I found that really
will help you if you have rat arthritis
you want to bring the potassium dietary
potassium uh level from the normal which
is like 4700 milligram up to
6,000 milligrams okay so we're going
from um 4700 to 600 Mig now some people
have a hard time getting their potassium
levels up to 4700 because they're doing
10 cups of vegetables so you may have to
supplement um with with potassium
citrate but here's the point when you
bring this up to
6,000 milligrams you start seeing great
relief with rumor arthritis okay with
swelling and I think the reason why is
because potassium actually helps bring
up the cortisol to the normal levels
because there's association between
potassium and cortisol I don't know
exactly for sure all I know is that when
you add this the person gets a lot of
relief okay and also you'll see that a
lot of swelling will go down too um now
I put some links down below for um like
some research that you can see the
connection between potassium and ra so
you can kind of study on it but that's
the most important tip the secondary tip
that I want to throw in there has to do
with another remedy called colostrum
colostrum it is a wonderful immune
building supplement that you can take to
improve joint pain and help remodel some
of the joints it's probably one of the
best remedies for rator arthritis that I
know as well in addition to the
pottassium so I think the combination of
both of those will be really really good
for you and you'll be really happy so I
just want to bring your awareness up on
that I put a link down below so you can
research that but go ahead and try it
out and then share sh with uh with me
the results uh down below okay thanks
for watching
