are you doing keto in in a minute
fasting perfectly yet you're not losing
any weight I have a lot of videos on
Plateau so what I did is I combined all
of them into one video to make it really
really simple let's first cover some
basics first thing is what is normal
okay when someone does keto an if' they
usually lose a lot of water weight
sometimes up to 8 pounds in the first
week that means you were carrying a lot
of water then the second week they're
hardly losing any weight at all maybe
two pounds well the maximum fat burning
the actual fat you can lose per week
with a healthy metabolism is only two
pounds okay that's actually really good
so if you're losing a half a pound or a
pound
don't take a loss on that that's
actually quite good especially as you
get older or postmenopausal that's
probably going to be the most you're
gonna actually lose because the
metabolism is slow down so just consider
what normal is second point it's good
healthy to lose weight not lose weight
to get healthy health comes first
weight loss second and let me define
health energy improvement
no more cravings hunger is gone feel
vibrant so if you're focused on losing
weight before that not a good strategy
our body will release some of this fat
once we get healthy so when you start
the program and you notice that you're
not losing weight yet your hunger is
gone realize it's working just give it
more time because the body has to get
healthy and there's all sorts of things
happening at the cellular level building
proteins and fixing repair actions and
things like that
okay next point muscle weighs more than
fat per volume so if you have atrophy
loss of muscle protein which actually
looks like that and you start this
program your body is going to repair
that first so you
you may start building more muscle and
that's gonna be a little heavier than
the actual fat per volume so you may
notice you're shrinking especially on
your waist and that means that it's
working just give it more time but not
necessarily weight loss because your
body is focusing more on the the the
protein building you may be losing some
fat but the protein is going up okay
nine things okay in the order of
importance so let's say you're not
losing weight what do you do
step one double check your carbohydrates
a lot of times there's hidden carbs
you're consuming maybe a fruit here and
there some wild rice some bread on the
side because you're not exactly doing it
perfect or it could be some wine or it
could be a so-called keto friendly bar
or some type of dessert and then when
you read the ingredients it is filled
with sugar okay okay so number two
you're fasting pattern this is very very
very important and sometimes if you had
a slow metabolism you need to fast
longer so the key is start where you're
at do three meals no snacks then don't
eat if you're not hungry
ride the wave and so you skip your
breakfast and then your first meal a day
maybe is that lunch and then the second
is that dinner and then you take those
two times and you start squishing them
together okay so now you're at a four
hour window and then you now you fast
for 20 hours okay and then let's say
you're still not losing weight and then
you basically eventually go to one meal
a day most people will lose a good
amount of weight with that unless they
have a history of a lot of dieting or
they're going through menopause or they
had diabetes or have diabetes and or
they have a lot of weight to loose or
they have a fatty liver so the body has
to kind of take the fat off the liver
first before it starts going after your
belly so they might not see something
right away but this is what they need to
do they might need to have one meal a
day every
other day okay that will handle even the
most severe case some people what they
do is they do in a minute fasting to do
one meal a day and then every week they
go for 48 hours so there's a lot of
different things you can try but you
need to increase your fasting okay
number three bloating you're eating all
these vegetables you're not used to them
and you're just bloated and you're
retaining water you seem to cut the
vegetables out right now because you
probably have something called SIBO
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
and that's just causing your gut to be
filled with fiber and you're getting
constipation you have fluid retention
that happens on occasion so cut down the
amount of vegetables that you consume
maybe some steamed or cooked vegetables
or just have like some leafy green salad
but not that much
this can inhibit your weight loss
therefore start cutting down your fat
now fat is good in the beginning but
when you start becoming adapted we want
to burn our own body's fat not the
dietary fat as much so you might want to
cut down your fat to about 75 grams it's
just a matter of not adding any fat to
the meal just eat the fat that's
normally with the protein to keep it
simple so this will help number 5 add
exercise in there especially if you
could do it when you're fasting so if
you're between 40 and 50 or getting your
60s you want to work out probably twice
a week and you spread it out just make
sure the workouts are intense or long
enough to really cause your whole body
to be exhausted or you're like so you're
sweating because we want to do a very
thorough workout but we have to make
sure we don't over train so it's a
judgment call I'm gonna put a lot of
videos down below for each point so you
can get more data on that number 6 add
another 30 minutes of sleep maybe even
one hour believe it or not you trigger
growth hormone which is the main fat
burning hormone when you're sleeping and
sleeping could greatly improve your
metabolism add another 30 minutes you
might even need to take a nap or just go
to bed a little bit early
this is actually quite big by the way
and you also the need for less snacking
too when you have fully slept number
seven this is when you can add the
outside of vinegar
you know dilute it drink it through the
day with water more potassium through
electrolyte powder or more vegetables b1
through nutritional yeast magnesium
leafy greens or electrolyte powder
and/or vitamin D these are all things
that will improve the situation with
insulin it will help lower insulin by
improving insulin resistance so if we
reduce insulin you'll lose more weight
but I don't recommend this unless the
carbs are low and you're fasting okay
because if you're adding nutrients on
top of carbohydrates on top of frequent
eating it just doesn't work number eight
reduce your stress
everyone goes to stress but there's
usually one or two sources of this dress
and it could be certain personalities
that you're involved with do whatever
you can to improve that situation
because I will say a lot of people lose
weight when they reduce stress and when
they go on vacation because they're
separating themselves from the stress
and their body just does very very well
this is very important by the way okay
just I'm emphasizing it for importance
okay and lastly number nine fix a health
problem that you may have that is not
associated with weight loss so in other
words take the weak link of the body and
correct it so let's say you have a
thyroid issue or some gut issue or
inflammatory pain situation or any
anything focus on that to eliminate that
to speed up your all metabolism all
right and lastly check out these
additional videos on plateauing on this
page right here
