from across Maryland Virginia and the
district this is Washington's 24-hour
Local News
Leader News Channel 8 live this morning
starts right
now back now at 6 minutes before 10:00
news for medicine's Cutting Edge turns
out body type may have a lot more to do
with weight loss than had originally
been thought Dr Eric Berg's popular book
seven principles of fat burning explores
this concept and he joins us live this
morning here on the set to help you
identify a little bit more about body
type doctor good good to have you here
first of all show me what you brought
right here because people are going to
look at that and say okay what is that
this is 5 lounds of fat so um the
purpose of fat is not a cushion or
insulator it's actually a potential
energy source so as the body becomes
more stressed or unhealthy it starts to
accumulate this certain locations of the
body so based on what's going on inside
the body the person will hold weight
different places because if you look
around people are have weight around the
top part of the stomach or a sagging
belly or on the hips each body shape
determines a different cause of that
problem and what you've been able to
figure out is that there are a lot more
body types and shapes than we sort of
we've heard about ectomorphs and
endomorphs and things like that but it
goes beyond that doesn't it yeah because
if you have the adrenal body type you'll
start getting a sagging belly the person
won't be able to sleep they're stressed
out they're craving salty food so each
symptom is a is a result of a different
hormone interaction that occurs in the
body so as the drenal goes up the stress
starts accumulating and you have the
adrenal body and these are the four body
types that you identify them adrenal
ovary thyroid and liver yeah adrenal is
the sagging belly ovary is the hip
weight thyroid is weight all over liver
is more of a topal or of a protruding
belly and each one has its own specific
plan because you can't treat everyone
the same way you can't put everyone in
the same program it just doesn't work
these are
loss from the the idea of there are
there chemical imbalances if you will
within the body that you have to sort of
if you can get those under control it's
a lot easier to lose weight everybody
knows how hard it is to do that yeah and
even shifting your goal to getting more
healthy and that specific body type to
actually improve it as compared to
trying to put everyone on the same
exercise and uh eating plan it doesn't
work so you have to get the person
healthy so they can actually be able to
lose weight and as compared to the
reverse everyone's trying to lose weight
to get healthy it doesn't work that way
does what you eat feed into this as well
I mean the the diets have to be modified
depending on on the the uh the kind of
problem that you may have yeah the liver
is involved you need cruciferous like
the kale broccoli brussel sprouts but if
you're a thyroid body type and you eat
those Foods that's Contra inuitive
because it depletes iodine so you really
want to tailor made the eating plan
towards the body shape and and to figure
all this out first of all you have to
get the book which is the seven
principles of fat burning Dr Eric bur
thank you so much you're welcome
pleasure to have you here sure we're
going to step away from just a bit at
the top of the 11:00 hour we're back
with more news and we invite you to join
us
