hey guys dr. Berg here in this video I'm
going to show you how to make the
ultimate snack now in the past I would
make things with heavy on the chocolate
heavy on the nut the problem is I don't
like too much chocolate and also the nut
is heavy on the gallbladder so what I
did is I wanted to make a snack that has
a least amount of chocolate and I wanted
to use something that wasn't a nut so I
use seeds so we have sunflower seeds and
pumpkin seeds you are going to love this
now check this out sunflower seeds have
close to 29 grams of protein per cup 29
grams high in fiber high in healthy fats
all the trace minerals all the B
vitamins vitamin C I mean it's
incredible then we have pumpkin seeds
high in protein high in healthy fat high
in fiber I mean they don't irritate the
gall bladder and they're high in protein
so totally awesome we have a little
coconut oil to thin the chocolate and
then instead of using regular chocolate
you have a choice I'm going to recommend
doing the Lily's bread but if you're in
a pinch you can do this simply light
chocolate from Trader Joe's the problem
is this is mannitol and it creates a
little bit of digestive issues with some
people this one is less of a problem so
if you use this you'll use three of
these - one of these okay and you're
just going to take the nuts and this I'm
sorry I take the seeds and you're going
to put about 5 cups of seed to about 9
ounces of chocolate okay and this is
with stevia erythritol
and it seems to be better on the
digestive system so so let's go ahead
and make this so it's real simple what
we're going to do first is we're going
to take the chocolate let's go over here
and make the shot melted chocolate
okay so windows we're going to take this
chocolate we're just going to melt it I
usually have two different containers I
have a pot with boiling water and then I
have something else that melts the
chocolate that way because chocolates
very temperamental to overheating and
then we'll go ahead and take three
tablespoons of coconut oil we're just
going to mix it in there and the reason
I use the coconut oil is just to thin it
out so it can spread with all those bye
cups of seeds okay so we'll just kind of
go ahead and melt this up a little bit
okay so it's melted so I'm just going to
pour it into the seeds and the nuts I
mean look at how simple this is it's
like no-brainer now one thing I want to
do is put a little bit of vanilla
extract just a little bit just maybe a
little teaspoon in there okay now just
just mix it up so basically you're just
eating seeds with a tiny bit of
chocolate
you
okay so now let's come over here we're
going to put them on put it on this
thing right here now what you could make
it in little cookies if you want but
what I am going to do for this
demonstration is I'm going to make it on
a cookie sheet and then just freeze it
and then break it off through the day
okay so the key is making it really thin
and I'm just going to stick it in the
freezer for about 10-15 minutes and then
we'll check it out it's been 15 let's
check it out oh yeah it's done
awesome awesome let's just put this
thing over here
so this is what it looks like very very
simple and you can just break this up
and put it in a container let's see what
it tastes like
mmm hmmm just a little bit of chocolate
it's salty I love salt salt the nut I
shouldn't be talking with my mouth full
but this is a great treat great snack it
won't bloat your gallbladder as much as
some of the other treats and go ahead
have more of this through the day but
it's a great snack so go ahead and try
this recipe and give me your comments
