hey dr. Burke here we're going to give
you a tip for the lazy procrastinator if
you feel like you're a lazy
procrastinator just realize it's not if
you're not really procrastinator you're
either tired and you feel like you're
lazy procrastinator because you don't
have the energy or it you don't see the
results
if someone doesn't experience results
every time they fail it makes it harder
and harder to get back on that wagon
because you're stacking up like you
almost in your mind you think it's not
going to work so why go ahead and do it
so that's how you make someone that's
procrastinator is you make them very
tired and you you have them fail so
let's talk about fatigue first how do we
increase the energy number one we need
to make sure the sleep is is corrected
because fatigue is a symptom of four
things one is a lack of quality sleep
number two it could be your thyroid but
typically it's not really all right if
you watch on my thyroid videos it's
usually the the liver and gallbladder
you need more bile or it's high estrogen
because the liver converts the thyroid
hormones and then the estrogen can block
the thyroid hormones so this hypothyroid
which could cause the fatigue could be
coming from those deeper issues okay
allergies food allergies if you're
eating something even gluten for example
could be an allergy to gluten in grains
you're going to be very very tired so a
lot of people are tired because the
digestive system or it could be a sinus
allergy because of the high level of
histamines that that allergy produces
which are fatigue factors and then blood
sugars when the blood sugars dropped
down to low because you're eating too
much sugar or orange juice you're going
to have a blood sugar fatigue high sugar
creates brain fatigue and brain fog okay
so anyway fix the fatigue now to get
results there's there's three things
that I always make sure that the person
is doing as a tip is we want to plan the
whole week in advance so that way you're
not waiting to Wednesday when you don't
have any food in the house and you have
to go to some quick food so plan what
you're going to eat for the whole week
so you don't have to think about it you
just go ahead and do it
very important
number two seven cups of vegetable a day
I already know the majority of people
probably if they're lucky only do two or
three cups why do you do seven because
our bodies need about forty seven
hundred milligrams of potassium every
single day and this would be about seven
to ten cups if you have less potassium
you're going to have a lot of issues
with cravings for sweets blood sugar
issues and fatigue so we need those
vegetables to get the nutrients to help
heal the system lastly this is one of my
things when I was on probably early 20s
I had a blood sugar problem of course I
was having carbohydrates for breakfast I
didn't know this but if you add protein
for breakfast you will feel so but much
better mentally at through the day than
if you skip this skipping protein and
sometimes even for lunch will make you
have a little bit of a fatigue later in
that day okay so those are some of the
tips for the lazy procrastinator
