today I'm excited to show you something
really cool to be able to take flabby
arms and tone them up and I'm going to
go through about eight or nine different
exercises so some people are not going
to be able to do certain exercises I'm
going to start really small and then
increase from there I want you to select
ones that makes sense to you when I do
my workouts I'm not very structured I
get bored really easy with exercises I
think it's important to switch it up I'm
going to show you a series of exercises
that you can pick or choose which ones
that will fit into your routine as we
age the muscles in our arms start to
atrophy the fascia that surrounds the
arm fascia is this stuff right here
Saran wrap a tissue that we recently
identified as being way more important
than what we thought it was because
fascia surrounds our entire body like a
wet suit but not just the outside in the
different layers of muscles around the
nerves around the organs it really gives
the shape of the arm and around your
whole body it holds everything together
it also shares some of the forces that
you put on your body when you exercise
when you stimulate like the fascia you
actually cause collagen synthesis or a
rebuilding effect what we want as we age
is to thicken that collagen layer and
make it so it can tighten everything up
really nicely in the last video I did on
toning the arm we talked mainly about a
stretching technique today we're going
to focus more on a strengthening
technique and in this video we're not
just going to focus on the primary
muscles like the bicep and the triceps
the biceps cause your arm to go this way
the tri tricep extends your arm that way
we're not just going to focus on those
muscles even though those are the
primary movers of the arm there are a
lot of other Associated supportive
muscles that have to be toned as well we
will handle the primary muscles all the
secondary and supporting muscles and the
fascia all with one type of exercise
this exercise is very safe on the joints
it's going to produce a lot of strength
reshape your arm it's going to help put
tone in the arm it's not going to
involve a lot of expens of equipment or
even going to the gym and from what I
evaluated I think this is the best
exercise for the arms that you can do
hands down most of the exercises we're
going to talk about are isometric
exercises now what's an isometric
exercise it's an exercise that involves
increasing tension in the muscle without
lengthening or shortening a muscle and
if we want to stimulate the primary
muscles the secondary muscles the
associated supporting muscles and the
fascia we want to add as much tension as
we can to make changes in the arm these
exercises might really appear to be very
simple but wow they really make you sore
we have the isometric exercise and then
we have another exercise when you
contract your muscle this is called a
concentric movement when you extend the
muscle and you lengthen the muscle
that's called Ecentric movement and so
some of these exercises that we're going
to show you are going to involve this
Ecentric motion this lengthening the
muscle very slowly under tension why do
we want to to do that because it
produces very fast results it's very
safe in The Joint it's fairly easy to do
versus going to the gym and doing this
two-dimensional exercise like this
you're only going to work those primary
movers you're not going to work
everything else as far as the equipment
for the exercises it would be great if
you had a band like this there's also
going to be another piece of equipment
that you may want to get it's not that
expensive but it's called an isometric
band I'm also going to demonstrate a few
things on the TRX which I will show you
really quick those are are not that
expensive either or if you have some
gymnastic rings I have those as well I
personally like those but you don't
really need to do these exercises on
those you can just use the TRX and even
if you don't have any of those I'm going
to still show you what to do without
using anything just using your body
weight I'm excited about a new product
we just released called TKA TKA is a
special type of bile salt that helps to
clean the liver the gallbladder and the
tubes connecting between the two one
indication that you might need some TKA
is a full sensation underneath the right
rib cage that sometimes refers up to the
right shoulder or upper trap area TKA
basically thins the bile sludge and
greatly assists in the digestion of fats
take two on an empty stomach either once
or twice a day depending on how severe
you have the problem in this first
exercise it's real simple you put this
band around your neck and as you can see
in this video the person is extending
their arm hold it in this position where
you're bent over for 20 seconds and do
three sets of that this is primarily
going to work the back of the arm this
next one I really like as well because
you can actually put this band right on
top of your door and then you can
actually bring it down halfway and hold
that position this is an isometric
exercise to really also build the back
of the arm and again for all of these
exercises just to make it really easy I
would hold them for a count of 20 if you
can do that if not do it less like do 10
seconds and then with a 10c rest and
just do it three different times in this
next video I really like guy because
Matt shifferly does a lot of great
isometrics he has several books that I
have I really like the way that he
explains things overcoming isometrics
are where we're trying to push or pull
against an immovable object that way the
amount of resistance against your body
is always equal to the amount of force
you're putting into it the anterior
chain is all the muscles on the front
part of the body the posterior chain is
all the muscles on the back part of your
body and the lateral chain is all the
muscles on the side of the body there's
three really cool isometric exercises
that you can do to just maximize your
tension in your muscles to really tone
those arms let's listen to what he has
to say and this is why I'm particularly
excited about the new isometrics that
I've been doing because they include
both resistance Against Gravity plus an
overcoming aspect where you can put as
much force as possible into your muscles
and it's always going to match you so
let me show you some of the ex exercises
you can try with this now the best ways
to do this are for the three support P
chains your flexion or anterior chain
posterior extension chain and your
lateral chains so we start off with our
squeezing plank where we get into hollow
body and then we're into a plank so
that's our yielding isometric aspect but
then if we squeeze the
floor between our hands and our feet now
you can kind of hear in my voice I'm
shaking a little bit I can feel my core
going nuts and now the amount of work in
my muscles is dramatically increased you
can also do the same thing for your back
side of your body with a squeezing table
Bridge so we've got our shoulders packed
down and back right and then we lift up
and then again we
squeeze the floor together between our
feet and our hands my hamstrings and my
glutes are going absolutely
crazy to make that happen the first
couple times I did that my hamstrings
cramped up really quickly so feel free
to apply a little bit less Force the
first time you try that here's another
exercise I really like this one as well
we're going to take a band underneath
your feet and you're going to pull up
your arm halfway this is going to work
the bicep this is called isometric bicep
curl for this next one it's a little bit
different and this is called an Ecentric
movement where we're going to take some
weight you can use a dumbbell or on a
bar and then you're going to bring it up
and then slowly slowly bring it back
downward lengthening the bicep this is
going to work your front part of your
bicep and this might look pretty easy
but it's not and you're going to feel
really sore after you do it I would
recommend do this maybe starting out
only five times but the key is to let it
down really slow and gradually for this
next one you're going to need something
called an isometric band you can get
these on Amazon they're not that
expensive and you're going to be doing
an isometric
pushing your arms over your head and so
this is another arm exercise that kind
of graduates into working your shoulders
as well let's dive into this video I
think Matt will explain it very
thoroughly employ what I like to call
the PTR principle position tension
resistance don't just jump in and be
like okay here we go instead take your
time setting up for the position to make
sure everything's where you want it to
be you've got good alignment because a
lot of isometrics are full body
exercises so elbows in good position
hands in good position then proactively
engage the muscles you want to be
working and then finally apply the
resistance against the handles or
whatever equipment that you're using
this ensures that you have proper
position but also good tension control
in the muscles you want to be using and
then you apply the resistance if you
apply the resistance too quickly and
then think oh yeah that's right my hands
need to be in a little bit or wait a
minute my tension my abs isn't quite
engaged enough it's a little bit harder
to get that stuff really dialed in once
you're already working so even just a
moment of position tension and then you
apply the resistance can go a long way
at making the exercises safer more
comfortable and a lot more effective
stability is also a very important
factor because you're only as strong as
you are stable and if you're really
fighting to stabilize your body during
an exercise that's less energ and effort
you can put into actually working the
muscles so in particular if you're using
something like the isot trainer or
something and you notice that when you
apply Force against your feet there's
coming in or you're a little bit on a
narrow unstable surface and that's why I
highly recommend running a strap or the
equipment you're using underneath some
sort of a platform like an aerobic step
or a plyo box or something now I'm going
to have a lot more stability with the
straps and my feet are on a very stable
platform they're not getting pulled
inwards or outwards and I can really put
a lot more Force directly into the
muscles without worrying about
compromises to my stability and lastly
don't forget that the whole point of
well any strength training Endeavor is
to adequately work the muscles not to
necessarily lift the weight or move the
cable around and the same is true for
isometrics your goal is not to put as
much force as possible into to your
handles the goal is to contract the
muscles as hard as possible and you may
find that this is going to be easier if
you don't try to always have your
maximum absolute amount of force that
you're applying into your equipment so
as you're using that rise time give
yourself permission to only apply 75 80%
of the effort you have you don't need to
max out all the time and I'm Contracting
or focusing on Contracting my biceps and
my
back very very hard as opposed to trying
to just pull on the straps that way
you're putting your effort into creating
a stronger stimulus in the muscle itself
versus just trying to see how hard you
can pull against the handle which might
lead to all sorts of compensation in
your Technique other muscle groups are
really trying to Overkill things you do
definitely want to have everything
working this is a full body exercise
there's just emphasis in the biceps and
if you find that you can do that with a
little less than maximum Force you're
probably going to be better off for it
if you want to learn more check out my
book overcoming isometrics the links to
that in the PDF store and Amazon is down
below and the overcoming isometrics
playlist that I have here in all sorts
of videos on workouts exercises
equipment recommendations and many
things to explore thank you very much
for watching best of luck in your
workouts be fit and live free in this
video you might want to use a what's
called called the TRX they're a little
bit less expensive than gymnastics rings
this is a killer exercise as you're
seeing me here in a push-up position
you're not just Fighting Gravity you're
fighting your arms from going out going
forward going back this is the ultimate
exercise to build up all those
additional support muscles that are not
the primary movers but they're secondary
as well as a FASA you will find that if
you could do this your arms are going to
get really really sore and you're going
to create some serious toning if you're
not able to do it in this position right
off the bat then you can do it a little
more angled in this shot you could just
see that I angled myself I raised up the
Rings so this can be a little bit easier
as you work into it I like this because
you're working more of the arm than if
you were just to do in a plank push-up
position and then in this last video is
a little bit more difficult but if you
can work yourself up to it maybe you do
this where your feet are touching the
ground if you can do this exercise
you're going to create some serious
tension
on the entire arm and your shoulder and
your back it might not look very hard
but it is difficult and it creates some
serious soreness what we're trying to do
is we're trying to maximize the tension
in the arms using this isometric type
exercise now that we went through this
go ahead and pick out some exercises you
might have to order some of the Bands to
do these exercises but I think you're
going to really see the results if you
can apply some of these exercises to
your workouts and if you haven't seen my
other video on the arm exercises I will
put that up right here check it out
