hey guys had another question will paleo
put me into ketosis okay well it really
depends on the person's age their
metabolism if they have insulin
resistance if they have a slow
metabolism because the thing about paleo
it's about 30% carbs so it's higher
carbs than keto which is 5% of the total
calories being carbs so we got thirty to
five percent because paleo allows fruit
sweet potato yam and even honey in
moderation and also the protein is also
a little higher to between thirty and
thirty eight percent of your calories
being protein versus twenty percent of
your total calories being protein on a
keto and what happens if you go higher
protein then you must keep your carbs
lower because too much protein will
increase insulin so if you're having
problems getting into ketosis you're
gonna have to give them lower the
protein definitely lower the carbs and
even if you do get into ketosis it's
going to be a smaller amount than the
ketogenic diet unless you're doing a
massive amounts of training and exercise
and burning off all these carbs in which
case you're probably you're ketones are
going to go higher but for the average
person they may be in ketosis a little
bit but I would say the average person
because they have insulin resistance and
their metabolism is slow they will not
be in ketosis okay thanks for watching
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a future video click the
link down below and share some ideas I
want to hear
