hey guys I'm gonna share something very
interesting with you it's the biggest
weight loss trap on the planet okay now
between 1970 and now there's many things
that occurred that spiked weight loss
you have you know the rise in high
fructose corn syrup the rise in sugar
the lowering of the fat but in a 2011
report from the US Department of
Agriculture there's been noted a slight
increase in calories but a more than
double spike in snacking since 1970 so
it's the frequency of snacking that is
the one of the biggest root causes of
obesity on this planet because our
bodies were not designed to eat so
frequently 94 percent of the u.s.
population snacks at least once a day an
average US consumer eats between 4 to 5
snacks per day and 3 to 4 beverage
snacks per day so even when people start
a diet they count calories they eat less
which automatically increases hunger
cravings the need for more snacks
causing the spike of insulin but there's
more so there's various companies after
that predict the trends of the future
here's one of them the global industry
analysis incorporated basically the
funding the so called healthy snacks
trend is exploding ok Global snacks from
the entire world are expected to exceed
six hundred and thirty billion dollars
2020 and this is driven by something
called functional snacks ok like the
protein bars protein snacks Organic it's
a buzzword gluten free low carb low
calorie GMO free no trans fats right so
I remember growing up in the 70s you
didn't have Starbucks you know where
people are drinking in these sugar
beverages 24/7 we didn't have in the
grocery stores you didn't have lines of
all these so-called healthy protein bars
we didn't have near the performance
drinks like the sugar exercise Vitamin
Water type drinks so yes we did have
granola
mixed nuts jerky dry food trail mix
which by the way always has sugar type
chocolates in there so if we compare it
to the 70s to now there's just a massive
amount of snacking tons of available new
foods that you could snack on
camouflages being healthy it doesn't
matter if it's healthy or not it still
spikes insulin so it's really an
insidious trap because who you are you
have low blood sugars you feel stress if
you're tired you're hungry you're
craving okay then you eat it makes you
feel better
okay it lowers stress it gives you some
energy it brings your mood up but
without understanding what's happening
in the background you think it's a
healthy thing and it makes sense because
even call it healthy snacks but it's
making things worse it's creating a
massive amount of insulin which is
causing a need to eat because it drops
your blood Sugar's over and over and
over so the solution to correct all of
this is intermittent fasting if you
don't know about this you have to try it
it's even more important than what you
eat I put a link down below of exactly
how to do it check it out
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a future video click the
link down below and share some ideas I
want to hear
