hey guys listen I want to talk about
what would happen if your cholesterol
went high on a ketogenic diet okay the
first thing you to know is that when you
lose weight the fat cells actually
shrink they don't go away completely you
can't get rid of a fat cell but you can
shrink it second thing you need to know
is inside that fat cell you have
triglycerides and you have cholesterol a
lot of people don't realize that
cholesterol is also stored in the fat
cell so as the fat cell shrinks
you can burn
triglycerides for fuel but you cannot
burn cholesterol it's not a fuel source
so what's going to happen it's going to
have to be eliminated through the body
as you lose weight so as your fat cells
squeeze it comes out of fat cells and
the cholesterol goes increase it's going
to increase in the blood it's going to
go through the
liver and it's going to come out through
the biome okay so as long as your liver
is healthy and you're eating a lot of
vegetables that's what I recommend and
also you have uh enough bile you're
totally fine um even if your LDL is high
the key thing is to make sure your
triglycerides are low because if you're
not using the triglycerides as um fuel
then there's a problem okay probably
you're eating too much sugar but if
you're on a ketogenic diet you're doing
it correctly and your triglycerides are
low and your hdls are high but your ldi
is high all that means is that you're
burning more LDL there's no bad effects
that are going to happen just keep your
veget high and then when you as you get
closer to your weight loss goal that
will level out and come back to normal
okay thanks for watching he I just
wanted to take a moment to thank you for
your amazing amazing successes that you
guys are writing about and I would love
to have a complete success story from
you with a before picture and an after
picture as well if you have that and I
put a link down below so you can fill it
out if you don't have a weight loss
before and after just put an image of
yourself and success I would love to
read it and I would love to share it
with others because it does give them
hope that they could be helped too thank
you so much
