boy acne can really affect someone's
self-esteem I had acne really bad going
through junior high school and high
school and it really affected my
self-esteem so I would like to share
with you something that I wish I knew
back when I had acne because it's so
simple to get rid of this if you
understand the mechanism and out of all
the things that can create acne there's
one really big vitamin deficiency that
you need to know about but I first want
to give you the kind of the mechanism
for
uh what is acne well it's a situation
where you have multiple things going on
at once um you have this gland this oil
gland it's called a sebaceous gland okay
and it makes oil and that oil is called
seum and there's usually a combination
of an inflamed sebaceous gland the gland
is now
enlarged and it's also producing too
much oil so you usually have some oily
skin and there's usually also a bacteria
involved which is affecting the immune
system and creating more inflammation
and that's what makes up this redness
that forms the pimple and there's also
sometimes Associated like these
blackheads or white heads which are part
of the tissue part of this whole problem
and typically what is triggering acne is
a shift in hormones okay uh like puberty
for example you have this uh sudden
Spike of androgens and also when women
have something called PCOS polycystic
ovarian syndrome um they also get acne
as one of the symptoms simply because
there's a spike in androgens now I have
done a lot of videos on acne before so
I've talked about different things that
are involved and one big thing that you
should know is high levels of insulin
because usually you're eating too many
carbs the high carbs triggers the high
insulin which will then increase more
androgens so number one we have the high
carb diet but we also have something
else that's usually involved it's the
frequency of eating that also will
trigger insulin okay how many times you
eat so uh that is called snacking so the
combination of a lot of snacking and
carbs are deadly uh for acne and so if
you want to get rid of acne you're
definitely going to have to go low carb
and you're also going to have to do
intermittent fasting so you're going to
um just cut out the snacks it'll make a
big difference and it'll be worth it and
you won't be hungry if you do this
because you're now shifting to burning
fat Fuel and you're not dependent on the
next meal so you can go for a long
periods of time without eating and just
the fact that your fasting in general
creates a lot of benefits for your skin
youthful looking skin anti-aging
qualities not that you're interested in
that if you're a teenager the vitamin
that is involved in acne it's a
deficiency of this one vitamin and that
vitamin is vitamin D let's let's take a
look at how Vitamin D relates to this
first of all vitamin D
regulates that bacteria I mentioned
that's involved with acne it regulates
it it inhibits it and so when you're
deficient in this vitamin D you're not
going to have the control over this
microb and so vitamin D is a very potent
anti-bacterial when it relates to your
skin number two when you take more
vitamin D uh you'll have less of that
oil okay less of the sebum and the
actual inflammation and swelling and
enlargement of that sebaceous gland will
now come down and start shrinking the
cells that make up the sebaceous gland
are also greatly influenced by vitamin
D3 and also when someone has PCOS
polycystic ovarian syndrome they're
usually always deficient in vitamin D
and so vitamin D is also involved in
helping you Reg at androgens and then
some people might think that they get
enough vitamin D the great majority of
the public especially teenagers are
deficient of vitamin D it's almost
impossible to get vitamin D from your
diet okay you have to get it from the
Sun and many people just are not out in
the sun often enough there's other
things that block vitamin D too a high
carb diet which gives you high sugars
will deplete your vitamin D as well and
this is why diabetics are usually always
deficient in vitamin D so we have that
we also have obesity is another Factor
the more fat you have in your body the
less vitamin D you're going to have also
if you have gut issues you're going to
be low in vitamin D if your skin is
darker you're going to have a harder
time converting the sun to vitamin D and
so there's many factors that cause this
vitamin D deficiency and taking vitamin
D in larger amounts can be just the
thing that you needed to completely get
rid of your acne so number one I would
recommend taking uh roughly about 20,000
IUS of vitamin D3 every single day
number two I would highly recommend
going on a low carb diet the sugar that
you eat or the refined carbs that turn
in the sugar uh in your bloodstream
actually feed this bacteria that's
involved in acne so we do want to go low
carb the third thing is cutting out the
snacks doing intermittent fasting at
least start out with three meals a day
no snack
just make those meals bigger and then
eventually skip out breakfast and then
you have two meals that alone will
reduce your insulin greatly and then
your andrens will do better and that
might just handle your skin problem
right there and number four you want to
stop scrubbing your skin in this thought
that it might be just a dirty skin or
the pores are dirty so you have to scrub
it I used to do that crazy every morning
I'd be scrubbing and cleaning my skin
was so soap and using all sorts of um
medication nothing actually worked in
fact it always made it worse because
here I am rubbing off all the good
bacteria that's supposed to defend
against the bad bacteria not to mention
I'm irritating all the inflammation and
so you're doing a lot of bad things to
your skin if you over sterilize it or or
scrub it too hard and then also you want
to start consuming foods that have some
vitamin D in them that would be coder
oil that's a really good one and the
reason I like cod oil is because it not
only has vitamin D but it also has
vitamin A another important vitamin in
acne this is why like Accutane which is
a synthetic version of vitamin A uh has
been used in the past for acne of course
it causes some slight minor
complications like increased risk for
suicide and liver failure but other than
that it's perfectly fine fatty fish like
salmon hbet would be really good to get
some good vitamin D now the question is
what food do you eat if you're no longer
going to eat carbs well for that
information I put this video up right
here check it out
