today we have something very interesting
with Justin Richard now if you haven't
watched Justin's videos in the past you
have to check them out I'll put his link
down below but he does this Channel with
evaluating his blood sugars on a
continuous basis and the type of
information that he has found with
experimenting with different foods is
amazing and we're going to share with
you some fascinating data about what
happens with different uh foods and if
you check your blood sugars over a
period of time rather than just a
one-time test uh what you're going to
reveal so welcome Justin thank you very
much I'm super pleased to be here I'm a
big fan of your uh content I've been
watching you for many many years and uh
I'm happy to be here thank you awesome
you know I just I stumbled on your um
your video and it's just it's like it
gets right to the point and you use this
continuous glucose monitor and uh and
you just basically
test out all these different foods let's
just dive in and just talk about some of
the things that surprised you that you
would never think would create that big
of a spike but I think just before that
what what I need to mention is like what
we're testing because if you're new to
this channel I'll just kind of explain
what we're testing so anytime you eat uh
certain foods especially carbohydrates
um depending on the type of carbohydrate
the blood sugar is going to either go
you know slightly up or really high and
then um and then it'll eventually come
down hopefully and so what's happening
is we're we have different hormones that
come in there and help regulate your
blood sugars like insulin and so when
you don't get this leveling off there
could be a problem with insulin so
anyway that could be more pre-diabetes
and a lot of people have that so that's
kind of my introduction so Jump Right In
Justin well it's it's really the most
important factor for me was insulin
resistance and I have a history of type
two diabetes in my family aunts and
uncles have it my mom has it and my
whole reason for starting this channel
was I wanted to do something to preempt
this scenario I don't want to end up
with type 2 diabetes and as I was in my
late 40s I was noticing that I was
getting low energy year after year my
energy levels were diminishing year
after year and especially after I ate
food and particular Foods highly
processed sugary Foods this really took
my it Zapped my energy and I was having
a hard time working through the day and
given the history of type two diabetes
in my family I realized that I needed to
do something quickly to get this under
control because I was on that road to
you know diminishing my health year
after year so that's the reason I did
this uh and uh I'm so grateful that I
that I did get the CGM because it really
takes the guesswork out of managing your
blood sugar and uh there are a lot of
surprises that happen along the way you
realize what these foods are actually
doing um in part in particular these
highly processed uh sugary Foods they
really have a a great impact on your
blood sugar levels and it really is an
eye opener when you get this uh this CGM
and you really see what's going on yeah
and CGM is the continuous glucose
monitor for those of you that didn't
quite uh understand what that is but
yeah that's
awesome yeah so um you know when I first
got it I was just continuing what I was
eating just to see what the foods that I
would commonly eat were doing to my
blood sugar and I ate a lot of Highly
processed foods a lot of baked goods
baked goods are my favorite thing I grew
up with them and I am not ashamed to say
that I I believe I have a sugar
addiction to a certain degree I crave
sugar quite often uh it's hard for me
sometimes to say no to Sugar especially
these baked goods and things like that
so when I first got the continuous
glucose monitor I was just testing out
what what these foods that I commonly
ate are doing to my blood sugar and it
was a shocking surprise that these are
really high elevations in blood sugar
for me me and also they had uh quite a
long duration so that's not something
that I wanted to continue so it really
brought this to light for me and I
started to alter my my diet uh
accordingly now I I do want to mention
as well too that I still eat sugar from
time to time but I've I've cut back that
that intake
significantly so yeah so so you know
it's if someone eats sugar obviously
it's going to go up what surprised you
the most what kind of food that you ate
you're like wow I had no idea it spiked
that high well besides the obvious
sugary treats and stuff like that white
flour any even bread or even whole wheat
breads for me really Spike my blood
sugar more than I thought they would for
some people that may be different uh
that may be potatoes or rice for other
people if we're you know off the track
of of of the highly processed foods you
know those are the the standard foods
that a lot of people are eating all the
time
uh they have a significant impact or
they can have a signifant significant
impact so for me it's that white flow
anything with white flower that's pasta
breads things like that so so you know
then you're going to get people that'll
say well I'm gonna have whole wheat
bread versus white bread have you ever
tested those two I've tested that
there's a minimal um difference between
the two it's all highly processed you
know a lot of that is marketing they
tell you that it's brown bread and it's
like it's really not that much different
I've also tested uh sourdough bread yeah
uh and not much of a difference and then
of course there's the argument that not
the bread that you buy the sourdough
bread that you buy at the grocery store
is not authentic
sourdough and uh that requires a
fermentation process that you usually
only get at a bakery so I went to a
local bakery I got the authentic
sourdough bread and it did not have that
reduction that I was hoping for so a lot
of these things that you see and read
online uh you really have to test them
for yourself because you know they may
have studies behind them and things like
that but not everybody reacts the same
way it's it unfortunately it's not uh um
entirely accurate when you're taking
those into account uh I've tried
freezing bread to increase the resistant
starch overnight freezing it and
toasting it it has a slight difference
but all in all these whole these um
these uh uh these breads or these
flowers really have a a high impact on
the blood sugar for me at least anyway
and many people as well too darn it um
so what about Ezekiel breads people are
going to wonder about that that sprouted
bread have you tested that I do and
that's my go-to bread I use that all the
time uh it seems to have the smallest
impact on my blood sugar with the breads
okay and part of the reason is because
the the slices of that Ezekiel Bread are
a little bit smaller as well too so
that's something to take into account
but it is a healthier bread when you
read the ingredient list uh and it's
lower in the glycemic index than most
breads that are using this white flour
so it is a good choice for me and all
the recipes that I do that I'm when I'm
trying to cut back on the glycemic load
I use the Ezekiel Bread interesting so I
have a question so um you know we talked
about sugar but um if we take a look
sugar and then we deduct the fiber and
the sugar from it we have What's called
the net carb um people don't really know
what that is but I'm just going to tell
you right now it's for those of you
watching it's a starch right so
sometimes you'll see uh products like
this right here Doritos it has zero
sugar right zero sugar um so it must be
okay but have you ever
tested May maybe I don't know like a
starch potato versus modified food
starch or a starch a refined starch like
this like really refined yeah generally
products like that that have corn as the
ingredient really Spike my blood sugar
as well too they're generally really
high in the glycemic index and they can
be problematic for me so I try to avoid
those as well too there's a lot of um uh
seed oils in those fried foods as well
too those are deep fried as well so
there's some some issues with that for
me as well too so I try to stay away
from that so it's not only about the
blood sugar for me I'm trying to eat
healthier all the way around blood sugar
is one of the things that I'm trying to
watch but I do consider things like that
as well too well you know you you were
into the like the um pastries bread
stuff I was into the salty chips in
college I would do a much bigger bag of
Doritos in one sitting but this right
here doesn't seem like that much right
so this is 14 serving sizes okay 14 so
you think anyone's going to have one
14th of this in one city so if we dis
multiply the hidden sugars which is the
refined carbs in starch in here this is
how much sugar you're getting in this
one bag yeah it that's that's incredible
it's just and it's so deceiving the
these foods are so highly palatable
these uh companies that manufacture
these take a lot of time to get their
recipes to have the maximum effect on
your biochemistry to make you crave them
more and more uh I did some research on
on Doritos and they actually hooked
people up to a brain scan to see how
their brain is reacting to these these
chips when you eat them and they're
looking they have their whole set of
terminology they're looking for the
Bliss point so when you eat something
it's the right amount of dopamine that
keeps you coming back for more of these
chips makes this stuff really really
hard to resist and uh that's why you
know like me a lot of people are hooked
on this stuff and it's hard to get off
it when you're comparing that food to a
healthy food like broccoli you know it's
difficult to say oh I like the flavor of
that broccoli better than these Doritos
it's a hard thing to to shake when
you're up against that
so it's uh but part of understanding
what is happening when you're eating
that and having those that data of your
blood sugar can really show you what is
going on and that can kind of scare you
straight so to speak it can it can say
you know what the consequences of me
eating this stuff are not as they're not
good and I need to start doing something
about it when you when you start to get
those symptoms later in life you have to
make a decision say do I want to
continue down this path or do I want to
do something to make myself feel better
and to regain my health that I once had
when I was younger so
that's that's uh but that's the battle
is is trying
to stay away from these highly processed
foods increase the consumption of the
whole foods that are high in fiber rich
in nutrients vitamins and minerals and
low in this highly refined sugar that
we're getting a lot of so that's the
challenge
that I face and I think a lot of people
face that's what gets a lot of people in
trouble with their metabolic health is
this food addiction we all have our
favorite snacks we all have our favorite
foods ice cream for some people potato
chips or baked goods or chocolate
whatever that is those are highly
addictive
foods and uh they can really do a number
on your blood sugar there's a a book
called I think the Dorito effect and
what's interesting they talk about the
history of it
they they manipulate the food to give
this uh Spike and burst of chemical you
know Joy dopamine but then it drops
really fast so it's almost like ah I
need another one oh you know it's like I
fell for it for years I was in the Trap
it took me a very long time to
eventually come off those things even if
I was like my stomach is in pain so I
know a lot of people are are stuck in
that trap um so you know the advantage
of this glucose continuous glucose
monitor is that um you can't really
necessarily know what's going on other
than just feeling it like with your
blood sugars but now you can actually
really see it and and measure it and so
but without measuring it you can't
really control it you know so be able to
see the effects not just like right
after the food but like even hours later
is super valuable um especially since
not just food can affect your blood
sugars right
right uh for me a lack of sleep can
increase my fasting blood sugar levels
by 10 15 even 20 points the next day wow
and my insulin sensitivity is not as
good as well too so when I do eat the
carbohydrates I'll Spy High in for
longer periods of time sleep is a big
factor stress is also a big factor and
everybody says that but nobody really
understands the real consequences of
that when you have the continuous
glucose monitor you can see on the graph
Oh My fasting blood sugar level is
actually up 15 points today because I I
only got you know 5 hour sleep last
night or highly stressed it really is uh
it's it it's something to see that
because you don't consider that it would
have that much of an impact but when you
see it it's significant another thing
that uh having the continuous glucose
monitor that is an advantage is this
tests your blood sugar every five
minutes so it's like doing a finger
stick every five minutes 24 hours a day
wow so you get a chance to see your
blood sugar levels overnight and I used
to be a late night eater I used to eat
you know a couple of hours one hour
before bed sometimes and if I eat
something like pizza or popcorn caramel
popcorn I've done some tests on my page
with that and went to sleep my blood
sugar will Spike 50 60 65 milligrams per
deciliter and it will stay up up for six
seven hours all through the night and I
would I would never have known that had
I not had the continuous glucose monitor
to show me what's going on overnight
because you're not going to get up every
five minutes and prick your finger to do
the test so that information is valuable
and that is enough to say look I am not
going to be eating late at night before
bed especially High carbohydrate meals
like that now my rule is I try to give
myself 3 to four hours before I go to
bed to digest that food and I also try
to make my last meal of the day more of
a keto style meal low carbohydrates
higher proteins higher fats so if I am
hungry I can still satiate myself but
I'm not going to do these high carbs
because going to sleep with a full
stomach of carbohydrates is not good for
my blood sugar so you you said six hours
six seven hours even my gosh yeah and
that's you and I'm not even considered
type two diab Ty type two diabetic so um
but that is alarming when you see that
because you've got uh your your stomach
is filled with these carbohydrates
you're not active you don't have a you
don't have a chance to burn these
calories off while you're sleeping as
much as you do when you're up and you're
active so that Revelation to me really
made a big change with my behavior I try
not to eat I do eat carbohydrates
throughout the day and sometimes I fall
off the wagon and I eat these highly
refined foods but now I do them with
some very
specific hacks or uh ways to mitigate
those blood sugar spikes in mind I keep
that in mind so I'm not going to eat
those High carbohydrate meals before bed
if I am going to have some carbohydrates
I'll include some proteins and some fats
and something fibrous to help slow down
those carbohydrates yeah let's let's
talk about that so what we want to do
what people you know it's impossible to
say no you never can have this for the
rest of your life but but if you do
there's things you could do right to
buffer this insulin response so
absolutely let's let's talk about that
so you found fiber will do it right
fiber so if you're going to have a salad
or something before a meal or um even um
vegetables raw vegetables things like
that even having an apple can help as
well too if you're just going to eat a
chocolate bar by itself I get a pretty
big spike but I've done some tests on my
page where I've had some hardboiled eggs
before that or some broccoli before that
and I've done the test it can bring prot
are you saying protein also can help
these three things fats fibers and
proteins they have a significant impact
they slow down the rate at which that
food moves through your digestive system
and that can reduce the blood sugar
Spike the postmeal blood sugar spikes so
I've tested each of them individually
proteins fats and fibers they all do a
pretty good job but if uh if I'm going
to have a chocy treat or a piece of cake
or something like that I can have uh
proteins fats and fibers beforehand it
fills me up so I'm not I'm less likely
to eat more of the junk food that I'm
going to eat and it helps to uh dampen
or bring down that blood sugar Spike
from that highly processed food so
that's a good rule of thumb that I've
been
incorporating um you can also take
supplements you can also take apple
cider vinegar which I know you've talked
about uh that has acetic acid in it
which helps to slow down that digestion
process as well that can bring a blood
sugar Spike down by as much as 30% that
really works wow wow I mix a tablespoon
of apple cider vinegar and a glass of
water you drink that right before your
meal and it can really help to reduce
that blood sugar Spike I wonder if
that's why some people unknowingly take
a piece of bread toast it add butter and
then cinnamon to help buffer the
response I don't know if that would do
anything but that would be interesting
test yeah and also you know when you
look at the sequence of how people eat
their meal they usually start with a
salad then they have the meal and they
finish with dessert well that is the
correct way to eat and that may have
been like uh developed or recognized
over the years of tradition you eat your
salad first then your meal and then your
dessert last that is going to slow down
the absorption or the digestion of that
sweet treat at the end so that's the
proper sequence to eat things it's to
save the sweet treats for last and plus
when you eat a salad you know because if
you eat the protein first and even the
salad after that I I notic that people
don't finish their salad so because they
kind of like the protein is the biggest
satisfier not the salad so I always have
the salad first not everyone does that
but I think that works for me when we
talked before you had a great tip you
know just to minimize the Temptation and
try to do a lifestyle that this stuff is
not in your face all the time so let's
talk about like tips that people can do
that can minimize the even the exposure
of this junk food other than just seeing
wow my blood sugars are high but what
else could we do it's true there's you
know it's all about developing habits
for me so the
the time that I all this time that I
spent eating these junk food these junk
Foods as all through my life have become
habits for me so I want a sweet treat
after a meal I want something sweet in
the morning it's all about changing
those habits from bad habits into good
habits so I work on one or two at a time
uh the last one I've been trying is
obviously don't go to the grocery store
and this is simple these are simple
habits that we've all probably heard
before but when you use them they
actually can really work don't go to the
grocery store when you're hungry go
after you've eaten some food you make
better choices there and it's important
for me when I do see something at the
store that I want to buy like something
that's sweet Donuts or something like
that I say no to it at the grocery store
because at the grocery store I only need
to say no to it one time when I if I
bring that item home and I put it in my
fridge or my cupboard every time I open
the fridge I have to say no to that that
might be four five six times a day I say
no to it once at the grocery store don't
bring it into your environment don't
make it easy to access that food that's
a really important tip and if you can
Implement that and stick with that
little habit it can have a significant
impact um for the rest of your life so
developing even simple little things
like that can make big changes if you're
going to have a big meal another great
one is you know you're going to eat a
big meal there's a high carbohydrate
load go for a 10 15 minute walk after
that meal that can have a really
significant impact to help bring that
blood sugar Spike down or keep it and a
at a nicer level so walking just like
that 10 15 minutes a really good habit
to start doing and those are small
little things that most people can do
it's free and uh they have a significant
impact I like that yeah because um if
you're the first uh 30 minutes of
walking you're burning up all your extra
sugar and your blood so that's
very important but I like I I'm going to
use that because what you said before
because yeah like if it's if you buy it
it's in your fridge now you have to
constantly say no every single day every
single night you're like uh no no no no
it keeps calling out to you yeah you
know when I was in um I was in my 20s
and then 28 I think I that's when I got
married and then early 30s right before
you know before keto I I couldn't sleep
this is probably my late 20s I couldn't
sleep so the only way I could sleep is
have b a pint of Ben and Jerry's ice
cream before bed you can imagine my
blood sugars and I think now looking
back it was a sugar coma like you start
spiking the sugar too high and it's
going to put you out of course I'd wake
up like I had a hangover but at least it
helped me sleep because I had the
restless legs from the vitamin B
deficiency that was created from all the
carbohydrates so I was in that that mode
for quite some years and uh it wasn't
until till and I don't know if this
happened to you or not but you know
there's a certain point in your life
where you make a shift of like okay I'm
going to change my diet and then you
realize oh my gosh I feel better it was
when I added protein for breakfast
instead of my carbohydrate big huge
muffin and my orange juice I don't know
what I don't know what you did but I had
a protein breakfast that was like the
biggest simple change that made me feel
better what what about you when what did
you do
I started to do intermittent fasting so
I started a 168 intermittent fast so all
the tests that I Do by the way are after
a 16-hour fast on an empty stomach so
I've put that into my life and that's
something that I can stick with rather
easily so I'm never usually hungry first
thing in the morning so that was an easy
habit for me to pick up intermittent
fasting then I started after that I
started to add protein into the first
meal of the day so about 30 to 40 gram
of protein I found that when I did that
I was satiated I had better energy
levels throughout that whole morning or
after breaking the fast usually around
noon so after eating
protein um including that that made a
significant difference then of course
what were you eating before that oh
donuts and junky stuff sugary sugary
like breakfast cereals breakfast cereals
are so high in sugar and they really
Spike blood sugar um so you know that's
what everybody does you grow up with
Cocoa Puffs and and Froot Loops and all
these things and you think that's normal
that's a normal diet for a lot of people
and we're unknowingly spiking our blood
sugar significantly first thing in the
morning and when you do that first thing
in the morning that sets you up to be
hungry and tired for the rest of the day
setting your um setting your
biochemistry up with a proper meal first
thing when you break your fast really
has a a positive effect for the rest of
the day so I find that when I do the
test like the other day was National dut
day so I said all right I'm GNA do two
Donuts I'm going to eat two Donuts I'm
going to test them so I did it after my
16-hour fast on an empty stomach I had a
pretty big blood sugar Spike there but
for the rest of the day I was tired I
was craving more sugar I wanted more I
wanted more sweets so that first meal of
the day is really really important and I
just discovered that do do you um how
how is uh well just have you noticed a
big change from in your mood your
overall mood when in the past versus
when you are doing good
foods yeah and for me my mood is really
directly correlated with my level of
energy so if I have low energy I don't
feel like doing anything and I'm not
productive when I'm not productive I say
why am I not doing this why am I not
motivated and that can get me down
because I don't feel productive and I
feel like I've lost the day can bring me
down a little bit I've also experienced
some anxiety if I have too many
carbohydrates uh but that energy level
was a big thing for me I was getting
after I would eat a meal any of these
meals I would get so tired I would be
falling asleep in my chair literally so
uh it has a direct effect on my energy
level which in turn has an effect on my
mood getting that under control has been
a real GameChanger in my life that
energy level is where it all started for
me I realized you know late 40s it
started mid to late 40s year after year
just
getting tired just tired every day and
not having the energy that I want had
and I said what is going on here then I
was researching insulin resistance and
that's one of the symptoms when you
start to lose your energy you're not
using the food properly it's not
metabolizing properly and your blood
sugar levels are altered making you
tired a lot of things go on with that
and that really has a significant impact
on a lot of people you know you don't
have the time and energy you don't have
the energy to do what you want to get
done during the day you don't have the
energy to connect with the people in
your life that you want to that has a
serious impact besides your health
massive when you when you were growing
up um were were you like a a serious
junk food junky or were you moderately
eating poorly and then just snacking and
then kind of going through your 20s like
what what severity were you at as far as
junk Foods I would say you know I've
been 40 pounds heavier than I am now and
you know I would say I I have a a sugar
addiction I would say that and I think a
lot of people do we're I think a lot of
us are afraid to admit that but I would
find a lot of pleasure pleasure in going
to the store and buying a variety of
junk foods and going home and eating
them that was a real treat for me I felt
would you also would you also do like
healthier foods too at the same time
like growing up not then not at that
time okay growing up that was a way for
me to have like a guarantee that I would
feel good I would go to the store I
would buy some chocolate I would buy
some potato chips and maybe a soda and
then I would come home and I would eat
them and I would really get a lot of
delight out of that so it was away for
me I'm sorry did you have in your house
dude was there always junk food in the
house there's well not so much when I
was very young my mom didn't do that but
when I got out on my own when I got I
remember when I got my first job I was
12 I was doing some stuff and I had my
own income I could go to the store and
buy this stuff that I wanted and for me
it was just a real treat and you know
looking back on that now probably was
you know soothing myself in some way um
but yeah I I I am still drawn to those
foods and every once in a while I do
fall off the wagon like the other day I
did the donuts and I said wow these
really are good yeah but again knowing
the consequences of that uh
really put things into perspective and
it really can hold you accountable for
that you know you can just schedule
those days on the days you do the videos
to to kill two birds with one stone
right so it's for the video that's what
and that's what I've been doing and then
you know when I do those videos I'll
often times I'll follow it up the next
day with some way to mitigate this so
other going for a walk or taking
supplements like berberine or apple
cider vinegar which I did after the
donuts I did that the following day and
that can really help to reduce those
blood sugar spikes too so I'm realistic
in the sense that it's very difficult to
drop all this highly processed food like
80% of the food out there is highly
processed yeah difficult to give that up
entirely and just switch over to Whole
Foods that's a tough challenge so my
goal is to bring this down bring the
balance of this the ratio of Highly
processed foods to uh these Whole Foods
I want to bring that down if I'm at 80%
processed foods and 20% um Whole Foods I
want to bring that up to 50% my goal is
to bring that up so I'm eating more
Whole Foods to processed foods and that
can have a tremendous impact alone but
to be ious of what category the foods
I'm eating are in highly processed
versus Whole Foods uh that that is that
is a big thing as well too that's a good
habit to get into what am I eating here
is this processed or is this a whole
food and then being conscious of that
bringing that ratio up but again it's
really hard to do that entirely just to
quit that processed food sugary food
cold turkey I can't do that so um to me
it's about making
uh incremental steps towards evening out
this ratio of process to high high I
think that's one of the advantages of
the continuous glucose monitors you can
um number one you can really kind of
finally face and look inside your body
and go oh my gosh this is what's
happening because before you kind of
like I don't want to think about it but
if it's in your face you're checking
your glucose and you're looking at that
that's that's motivating yes you feel
better but then you see it and like oh
my gosh so I mean and then you also have
um you know just the experience of going
through this I think um if a person had
the basic understanding and they
experienced it for at least a week or
two I don't think they're going to ever
go back to where they were originally
because now they know they feel so much
better like I I mean I think this is
what the glucose monitor is helping with
is like making more of a longer uh
change and and not ever going back
because now you know it's in your
knowledge base it's not just you've
experienced it because I I I would I
don't know if you would agree with this
um I had to go through um some suffering
and then I had to change my diet to
really prove to myself this was correct
I mean yeah I mean you don't have to
once you feel that way it's like there's
a point where what am I going to ever go
back no because I don't I I now I know
I'm I don't want to feel that way that's
like me with late night eating
carbohydrates late at night I I say to
myself do I want to go through an all
night Spike again for this no yeah right
it's not worth it so one one tip that I
I use is I I'll see something that I
like I like popcorn for example and I'll
just put myself okay let me just
envision myself eating it okay what the
pleasure and then what am I going to
feel like about a half hour later an
hour later I'm like uh no I think I'll
pass but there's a you know if we take a
look at processed food I I recently um
started looking at all the processed
foods and looking at the common
denominator what really makes it up as
far as like ingredients and there's a
lot of complexities on the label but
really when you come down to it there's
just three things that make up 99% of it
and that would
be this right
here which is maybe not in the form of
even sugarcane it's too expensive they
use beet sugar or or glucose syrup and
then of course you have seed oils
there's always seed oils now what's
interesting about that is people think
uh saturated fats in junk food no
they're all unsaturated fat I mean you
do you ever see any more like lard or
taow in here no it's seed oils and then
you have of course modified food Storch
modified cornstarch melted dextran so
those are that's it and if you were just
to take those three ingredients and mix
them up and put some flavoring on there
you wouldn't eat it it has to be
packaged in a really nice thing like
this and it has to be in the right
texture and but I think more education
is going to be the key to get people off
of it and then um I think I want to
close with the continuous glucose
monitor I personally went out to get one
and I think it was the was the free
Freebird or what was that called the
lifestyle Libre uh yeah the it's the
lifestyle Libre yeah yeah I tried that
you know what I it didn't work it just
it had now it was actually really bad
reviews and then I I tried it again and
I tried a third time and it just broke
down and then uh um right now I just got
the one that you recommended so what and
I don't even remember what it's called
because I just got it in the mail what
which one do you use I use the brand
it's signos and they uh they cater to
people that are trying to improve their
metabolic health and uh I really like
them because of the software the
software is very intuitive and easy to
use and once you get the data how what
you do with the data is important so
being able to read that data properly is
important and some of the uh interfaces
that you get with these other companies
are not as intuitive not as easy to use
customer service is important important
one as well if you have any questions
you want to be able to get a quick
answer so you can move on and get things
going so that's another issue as well
too um I like this company I I've been
working with them for over a year and a
half now and not all of these things run
perfectly all the time there are little
hiccups along the way but of all the
ones I've tried this one seems to be the
most stable and uh it works very very
well so yeah even the uh the the reviews
are much better that's important but
also is it smaller too it's small yeah
it's a nice small so these companies
usually use one of two Hardware so the
biotech is is uh there's two companies
that really do it one is the lifestyle
libbre and the other one is the Dexcom
and the Dexcom has higher ratings a lot
of people like it more but it's the
service that you get they have different
software different applications that you
have on your phone and I've tried a lot
of different ones and again you want
ease of use and you want something with
a with an interface that gives you
suggestions on what to do so when I'm
eating something and I have a blood
sugar Spike it'll notify me and it'll
make suggestions for me to lower that
blood sugar like go for a walk Now's the
Time to do some exercise I can log the
foods that I eat and it will tell me you
know give me suggestions on on on what
to do to manage my blood sugar which is
a really good thing uh so you're not
just stuck with a bunch of data that you
don't really know what to do with so uh
a lot of the the
uh the brands out there kind of don't
offer as much as what the signos does
and that's part of the reason I like it
so much I'm excited to use it uh I'll be
doing some experiments myself and then
um I we'll have to do another video but
I will put your link down below also sna
there's a link down there as as well and
uh hey thanks for uh uh this
collaboration I think this is a great
video that people will start to kind of
maybe start using this uh data to change
their their their
lifestyle yeah I think it's an exciting
time to have this information it really
takes the guesswork out of managing your
blood sugar and uh for me it's really
helped a lot I really appreciate uh you
having me on the show Absolutely okay
great have a good one take care
