hey guys it's me I want to talk about uh
this product right here number one it's
100%
certified organic okay so that's cool
it's raw it's weak grass but here's a
catch 2 to it's a juice powder it's not
a weak grass powder like most things out
there so it's some seriously
concentrated amazing powder that's grown
in in a farm in Utah where they used to
have a ocean so it's an ancient seabed
so that means that it's able to pull all
these sea salts in the complexes 94
minerals up into this grass that's then
juice so it has a real smooth Rich
highly nutrient dense product it's my
favorite thing on the planet and here's
how you take it there's a couple things
you can take it right in water and it's
not that bad tasting it's kind of like a
MTI uh thing and you take a teaspoon
there's a scooper in here you can take
it out or just get a spoon and put it in
water and mix it up now because there's
no binders there's nothing no chemicals
in here to like thinning agents like a
lot of things so there might be some
clumps in there I'm sorry but I just
wanted it that way I um but you just
have to mix it really good uh for like a
minute and then Slug It Down in a half a
glass of water okay and minimally once
once a day um if you do it once a day
this will last you for two months okay
if you do it twice a day it'll last you
for a month and that's what I recommend
is twice a day if you're trying to
correct a condition in your body maybe
do it three times a day especially if
there's a blood sugar issue uh involved
um there's a lot of potassium in here
too like one teaspoon is equ equivalent
to a lot of shots of weak crass juice
and about 3 pounds of vegetables of
nutrients so you're getting so much
great things it's incredible so I like
to take that um it doesn't matter with a
meal or an empty stomach okay you just
kind of spread it out maybe one in the
morning and one at night it'll help you
sleep as well the other thing is you can
put it in your shakes you can put it in
a kale shake and you just scoop it put
in the kale Shake blend it and drink it
down you won't even taste it but this is
some serious chlorophyll as a Healer
it's good for the digestive system it's
good for the immune system it's good for
the blood sugar it's good for the
cardiovascular it's my multivitamin
mineral everything okay so um in fact
I'm phasing out of my super nutrients
and um this is my new super nutrients
right here so it's the best thing I have
and that's how you take it um and
there's occasionally like one out of a
thousand you know people won't like the
taste and so they're like oh I can't
stand the taste T will try to put in
other things you know uh maybe put some
berries and blend it in a little Shake
but it's so good for you it's just it's
worth it so or put you know you can
always put put it in capsules as well
but that's kind of a pain in the butt
anyway I just wanted to mention some
some details about what this is and how
to take it and um there is no side
effects it it doesn't have
gluten it's actually great for allergies
believe it or not like if this is like a
grass when you take this it helps you
reduce allergies to grasses yeah it's
pretty wild um it doesn't have any
gluten it's captured at like four days
old so these little tiny grasses and
then they turn that into juice right
away so you have the maximum nutrition
in phytonutrients so so that's pretty
much what that is and uh go ahead and
check it out and I will see you in the
next video
