hi guys I want to answer the question is
fructose which is a low glycemic
sweetener safe to consume okay I mean I
mean after all it's in fruit right so it
should be healthy agave nectar has a low
glycemic index and has 97 percent
fructose but here's the problem
high-fructose corn syrup which is all
GMO as in soft drinks it's in the big
gulp it's in the fruit juices the jams
that can be the syrups the dressings
it's in 80% of all the foods in the in
the US have high fructose corn syrup I
mean that's just off the charts well
here's the thing your cells do not use
fructose as the energy source that's not
what the cells use the cells use glucose
or ketones and the effective fructose is
very similar to ethanol or alcohol okay
so your body treats it like alcohol so
it's very toxic and it's the absolute
worst type of carbohydrate you could
possibly consume and I'm not talking
about fruit I'm talking about high
fructose corn syrup and this is why
because a hundred percent of the
fructose is metabolized by your liver
and the amount of fructose that people
consume on a regular basis just put that
liver into an overwhelmed state very
fast and you're going to develop a fatty
liver you're going to spike your
cholesterol your triglycerides and
you're going to make a tremendous amount
of visceral fat that's around your gut
that's around the organs which is going
to lead to all sorts of issues so the
three main things the side effects of
high fructose corn syrup is a fatty
liver insulin resistance and belly fat
other than that is totally fine right
I'm being very sarcastic and I have a
question for you would you let your kids
drink beer or alcohol if the answer is
no then you definitely don't want them
to do the high fructose corn syrup
because it has a very similar effect
that alcohol has on the liver and the
rest of the body alright there's a lot
of alternative things that you can give
your kids I'll put some links down below
as far as sweeteners even drinks stevia
drinks soda
soda with stevia I mean you can do all
that so I'll put some links down below
all right talk to you later so Karen and
I are going to create some more recipes
but we wanted to know what recipes are
you interested in okay click the link
and let us know
