so welcome Lori we're we're going to do
a Skype today do a little interview I I
saw your before and after I was very
impressed I wanted just to get to meet
you and hear your story so welcome to
the mini interview thank you I'm
delighted Hey so uh Lori tell me uh a
little bit about your history um have
you had an issue with weight over your
you know growing up or when did you
start gaining weight what what what's
your story on that um I never I never
had a um weight problem until probably
my early
40s um and I started um going through
menopause uh very early and
um I had had you know some minor weight
issues you know due to um pregnancies
and things like that but I was always
able to get back in shape pretty quickly
um but at after I started experiencing
the menopause symptoms I really started
you know putting on the weight um and as
we all know the your body changes
drastically during that time and um it
just kept getting worse and worse and
I'm quite a few years postmental pusle
now and I just kept gaining the weight
and I couldn't nothing I did worked um
as far as traditional advice and you
know going low fat and things like that
exercise
and I just recently um finished my
undergrad degree and during those four
years I was very sedentary because I I
was working an office administration job
plus I was a full-time student plus
full-time parent full-time wife things
like that so I had a lot of stress going
on and I let myself go um I didn't have
time to think about me I had to produce
and you know just get through daily
living and get through my degree so my
body and my health suffered
tremendously and after I finished my
degree in December I became aware of
course I was already aware but I
couldn't really have it in the Forefront
of my thinking because I couldn't I had
just had too many things going on so
after I completed
school I was okay ready to work on me
now and I had done some research and I
started
researching um because I found myself
bored a couple of weeks postgraduation
so I started researching some things and
I come across um Dr Denise
Warden and um I had heard some you know
comments about the ketogenic diet and
how she had had good results treating
some folks with that so I got I got
thinking about it and curious and I just
started doing research and found the
information from Dr Westman and then
shortly after deciding that this is what
I was going to
try I promptly started finding your
videos and um I found a lot of that very
helpful but um yeah so that's where I am
today awesome what what did what did you
peek out what was your like top weight
that you hit be you know at the worst
case
scenario about 185 okay and um did you
also have like hot flashes and all that
too connected with I had the whole gamut
okay uh insomnia hot
flashes joint pain um mood problems you
know mental health issues you know I
just I I it was horrible I felt horrible
I felt like I weighed a th000 pounds
just physically it was it was hard to
motivate and move and I I knew that
there had to be a solution and I was
also diagnosed with um high blood
pressure I've had issues for many years
with the high blood pressure but that
that really took uh it increased and
just continually got worse from the time
that I was diagnosed as
uh menopausal yeah on through the post
situation interesting so um before
menopause let's say in your 30s did you
have any problem with your periods or
your cycle at that point no I didn't
okay so everything's going fine and then
bam you get go through all these I after
I had my last child which I was uh
31 when I had her and then shortly after
I started having weird something
then and it took several years to get it
diagnosed so
wow what happens is the uh the adrenal
glands basically make the same hormones
as the ovaries and they if they go into
menopause tired exhausted weak
everything is magnified then you start
getting more cortisol adrenal symptoms
and you're like what the heck's going on
hot flashes hot flashes are basically um
the adrenal failing to back up the
ovaries that's all that is um and then
um so you you eventually started doing
the ketosis so tell me um how much how
much weight did you lose what did you
get into eventually as far as your
weight today I am 155 wow that's awesome
yeah and actually I'm more impressed
with the
inches than I am the weight the weight
I'm really not you know I know that's
going to happen so I'm not really
focused on the weight part at first I
was but then when I I started this um I
the day I started was February
2nd and that that way in I was like
182 and um I started at
hardcore and I lost about 10 lbs the
first two weeks and of course I was
aware that that was most likely water
weight so I said okay let's see what
happens in the next following weeks well
then I started um it was about one to
two pounds a
week wow that's pretty good yeah and
that's where that's where I've been for
been doing for a while but the last I'd
say about the last two to three weeks
I've been right at 155 so I'm figuring
you know I'm letting my body the healing
catch up um with with all the new
adjusting and all that stuff and then
I'll probably I got to go back and see
my um doctor uh the 19th of July and and
um we can make some adjustments from
there if need be yeah awesome so um so
did you carry any weight in the
midsection at first is that where it
hung out I actually look like I was
about eight months pregnant wow and so
you did you notice changes in your
midsection like inches like shrinking in
your stomach instantly
absolutely um right right
from um my upper rib cage right down
through to my mid thigh wow I I was very
heavy there that's where I carried all
that weight and also in my upper arms
and through my face and neck those
people that are watching um and they're
not familiar with ketosis or imminent
fasting um the belly is really excess
insulin but cortisol which is adrenal
can also cause that as well because that
can convert in insulin so or or increase
insulin so basically you want a
ketogenic diet at first did you do any
intermittent fasting at first um no I
did not um thanks to you I've learned
about the intermittent fasting and that
has served me very well um actually I
just came off of um a
vacation and um I only I gained one
pound through that
vacation and um I have decided that
after this weekend because I got to do
get back on track for my food preps and
all that kind of thing so I'm going to
do that this weekend and then I'm going
to start practicing the inter
intermittent fasting again get back on
that schedule awesome yeah I had a
friend who I talked to over the weekend
and he went on a um a
cruise and uh he's looking around on at
the pool his kids are playing and he's
like people are like so big on those
cruises like huge huge stomachs and
they're sitting around of course you
know what they're eating and the alcohol
and everything and that was that's what
motivated him he says that's it I'm
going to turn this around I'm not going
to look like that but uh that's great
that you only lost I mean you only I
guess gained one pound so question I
have um tell me uh give me an example of
what you're eating now on your keto like
um like what what would you eat for
breakfast or lunch or
whatever
um today I haven't eaten yet um and I
will I plan to eat um probably in
another hour or so um but I typically
start my day off with eggs I love your
advice with the eggs and boy doesn't
that really set me up in the evening
that is so true um and it holds me you
know it really satiates me but being on
the keto diet in general uh my appetite
has naturally decreased as far as the
amount at one sitting that I can handle
so but usually um for breakfast I will
have two eggs with um some cheese um
cheddar cheese mixed in with it and um
two to three slices of bacon or a couple
of um sausage
links and then for lunch I try to work
in my um my greens if I in some way
um I will try to have some type of a
salad or either I will have fresh
broccoli and
cauliflower things like that um I try to
stay away from the
snacking um with your help I've learned
uh how to do that um because I it took
me a while to get adjusted to that
and I had I had this obsession with fat
bombs I think I got a little too carried
away sometimes so I've backed way down
on that so it's so easy to eat a lot of
those isn't it I mean you just have one
I'll just take one more and next thing
you know you're like totally but you
know what's interesting um there's two
things about the fat bombs number one if
you're doing in minute fasting you can
get away with more um than if you were
doing just keto and eating six times a
day I mean so that's going to be
disastrous and the other thing is that
um at first when you start to do this
and you adapt to keto this you're keto
adapted the amount that of fat you need
is a lot less because you're running on
your fat cleanly you don't almost like
before when you start out you need
something to get you to the next meal
but after after a while hunger goes down
Cravings goes down appetite goes down so
you're actually running off your own fat
which is perfect right and that's where
what I've just recently discovered in
some of listening to some of your um
your webinars and um your YouTube videos
and I that had never occurred to me
before but boy what a difference that
does make it really does has your
Cravings gone down yes tremendously I
don't I don't have any craving really
that I you know I may have AE but it's
not necessarily an internal craving it's
more of a psychological craving good
point good point yeah cuz it's like you
know I don't need that but I sure it
looks really good I mean your your
desire for that sensation is not going
to go away but you're just not going to
have to have it you know so and and the
longer I have been on this
diet the easier it is to not even have
to think about saying know it's almost
automatic now and so has my cooking um
because I've really had I'm I'm
originally from Virginia and I'm very
Southern in my culture and in my eating
Traditions you know and um I have really
had to rete relearn how to cook and
prepare meals and I have um tons of
recipes that I've just tried just to see
what you know what what I like and what
I don't like and I haven't found too
many things that I don't like that are
keto and now it's becoming very natural
and intuitive to me to create a meal on
my own without having to plan so far
ahead right so um when you're doing in a
minute fasting were you doing just two
meals a day yes yeah and I have even
done one meal a day I mean number one
you're going to save money less
preparation you got more time on your
hands but that's the problem is keeping
yourself busy because it's like wow
sitting around and everyone's like they
have food on the table and all the stuff
so just keeping busy so you don't have
to you know focus on it so have you
noticed any change in your cognitive
function or a mood or anything with your
energy unbelievably
so I
am I I best way I can describe it is
miraculous really I didn't know how bad
I felt till I started feeling better and
then I just keep feeling better and I
just keep feeling better now Granite you
know I we have a not so good day every
now and again just because you know life
happens or whatever but it's it's
nothing that just continuously goes on
and on and on and then I have to
struggle to get past
it's my life is my energy level is
incredible my my cognition and my focus
is very
Swift um and I have no problems focusing
I don't have to struggle with that
anymore wow that is so awesome so do you
um now that you know how it went and how
you feel do you ever think you ever go
back to your old pattern of eating
absolutely not ever and I'm so I'm so
impressed with this I just in s in such
awe over the changes that have happened
in reasonably short period of time I
mean I've only been doing this since
February and it's now June so just in
this short period of time the the
improvements that I have
seen I don't ever want to be a cariv war
again ever um there's no need for that
because I I just I don't I'm not willing
to trade my health for that and I have a
lot of plans moving forward and I want
to feel good doing it I have two
grandchildren and um I have a lot of
plans so I just want to you know have
longevity and feel good while I'm doing
it and my family has even been so
impressed that um they have joined in um
my husband and my daughter my husband
has even lost about 20
pounds and he's still he has a a lot
higher carbon take than I do I I
practice the 20 grams per day and he may
go up to maybe 50 but he's a big guy
he's you know 6'2 and um I think he's
two about two 210 lbs now and he was
about 230 40 when he joined in with me
and then he's you know talked about his
improvements as well and then my um my
youngest daughter who's still at home
with us she practices with the dinners
and being conscious of her car of intake
but she's very active and very athletic
so she can handle a little bit more and
you know she doesn't have to watch it as
close as I do but um we are all um just
thrilled to have this to be part of our
life and I am so impressed with it that
I want to
incorporate nutrition education into my
Master's Degree which I'm going to be
going into my education background is in
mental health and human services and I'm
planning I was planning to go into a
master's program for social work however
I'm rethinking that and for the last two
weeks I'm reconsidering trying to
incorporate um a nutrition um program
into um a counseling
program try to com I really think that
is an area that is needed like people
just s sick of the drug the pill for the
whole psych problems and I mean it's
honestly a lot of it is nutrition and
diet if they they were to put on this
program it would be miraculous but of
course um they wouldn't make a lot of
money on it but still people would feel
a lot better right and I'm a very
holistic person that has always been um
my Approach on most things and I I'm
like that three-year-old who is
constantly asking why I can't stop
asking why and um because of that I've
come across this way of living which is
miraculous it truly is and I want to
share it with everybody I care about and
you know I I want to help people but I
also understand not everybody wants the
help so but I have the knowledge that
they want it totally I'm the same way
I'm like hey if you want help great if
you don't then go for whatever you're
doing you know let me know when you're
ready because you know they have to be
self-determined and uh um that's fine
eventually you know yeah L this has been
incredible I think it's going to give a
lot of people hope because you're a
great success before and after pictures
are amazing so I want to thank you for
sharing and uh we'll touch Bas and and
maybe do another one later just to see
how you're doing like maybe several
months from now I would love that thank
you very much I really appreciate you
and all the you do it's been wonderful
you're a great support and great
encouragement my pleasure well thanks
and have a great afternoon you as well
okay see you
