hi guys I had another question related
to wheatgrass someone want to know how
much wheatgrass juice powder
do I have to consume to equal seven to
ten cups of salad okay well the first
thing I want to let you know is it's
very difficult to compare that because
we're dealing with a product that has
fiber salad and another product there's
no fiber this is a juice powder a lot of
times when you get wheatgrass that's
just like the fiber this is the juice
powder so it's super concentrated okay
so basically five grams of this equals
four ounces of a salad
but let me just kind of make it more
real to you okay so here's the lemon
wheatgrass juice pattern so I'm going to
take a little scooper right here this is
2.5 grams okay
so basically if we wanted to have
something equivalent to seven cups but
of course without the fiber seven cups
of salad which is seven ounces okay that
would be three and a half of these okay
if we wanted to hit ten cups or ten
ounces we would need five scoops of
wheatgrass juice powder all right you
got the equivalent okay so this right
here this is a huge singer salad right I
don't think I could eat this whole thing
in one sitting but probably in a couple
salads I could do that but I don't
usually consume this much sometimes I do
but sometimes I'll do like half of this
but this is 16 ounces okay 16 ounces
would basically be 20 grams which is 8
scoops
of this equals this okay so that would
be giving the equivalency okay so I hope
that answered the question thanks for
watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press this little button down below okay
thanks
